002-CSM-INSTALL.md, before:

# CSM Install

This page will prepare you for a CSM install using the LiveCD in different scenarios.

* [Install Prerequisites](#install-prerequisites)
  * [Installing onto Shasta v1.3 Systems](#installing-onto-shasta-v13-systems) for systems which have Shasta v1.3 software and need to move to Shasta v1.4 software.
  * [Installing onto Bare-metal Systems](#installing-onto-bare-metal-systems) for new machines doing their first install of Shasta software.
  * [Reinstalling a Shasta v1.4 System](#reinstalling-a-shasta-v14-system) for previously deployed Shasta v1.4 system.
* [Starting an Installation](#starting-an-installation)
  * [Boot the LiveCD](#boot-the-livecd)

<a name="install-prerequisites"></a>
# Install Prerequisites

The prerequisites for each install scenario are defined here. **All prerequisites must be met
before commencing an installation**.


After finishing any of these prerequisite guides, an administrator may move
to [Starting an Installation](#starting-an-installation).

---

<a name="installing-onto-shasta-v13-systems"></a>
## Installing onto Shasta v1.3 Systems


Each item below defines a prerequisite that must be completed on systems with existing Shasta
v1.3 installations. Optional steps are noted as such.

* [Collect Shasta v1.4 Config Payload](#collect-shasta-14-config-payload)
* [Quiesce Shasta v1.3 System](#quiesce-shasta-13-system)
* [Upgrading BIOS and Firmware](#upgrading-bios-and-firmware)
* [Recabling](#recabling)
  * [Site Connections](#site-connections)
  * [PCIe Connections](#pcie-connections)
* [Shut Down Management Kubernetes Cluster](#shutdown-kubernetes)
* [Powering off NCNs](#powering-off-ncns)

<a name="collect-shasta-14-config-payload"></a>
### Collect Shasta v1.4 Config Payload

Although some configuration data can be saved from a Shasta v1.3 system, there are new configuration files
needed for Shasta v1.4.  Some of this data is easier to collect from a running Shasta v1.3 system.

There may be some operational data to be saved such as any nodes which are disabled or marked down in a
workload manager.  These nodes might need hardware or firmware actions to repair them.  If not addressed,
and the newer firmware in v1.4 does not improve their performance or operation, then these may need to be
disabled with v1.4 as well.

There may be site modifications to the system from v1.3 which are desired in v1.4.  They cannot be directly
copied to v1.4, however, recommendation will be made about what to save.  Some saved information from v1.3
may be referenced when making a similar site modification to v1.3.

See the [Harvest Shasta v1.3 Information](068-HARVEST-13-CONFIG.md) page for the data harvesting procedure.

See the [service guides](300-SERVICE-GUIDES.md) for information regarding the v1.4 configuration files.

<a name="quiesce-shasta-13-system"></a>
### Quiesce Shasta v1.3 System

1. Follow site processes to quiesce the system, such as draining workload manager queues, saving user data somewhere
off the system, and limiting new logins to application nodes.

    Check for running slurm jobs

    ```bash
    ncn-w001# ssh nid001000 squeue -l
    ```

    Check for running PBS jobs

    ```bash
    ncn-w001# ssh nid001000 qstat -Q
    ncn-w001# ssh nid001000 qstat -a
    ```

2. Obtain the authorization key for SAT.

    See System Security and Authentication, Authenticate an Account with the Command Line, SAT
    Authentication in the Cray Shasta Administration Guide 1.3 S-8001 for more information.

    v1.3.0: Use Rev C of the guide
    v1.3.2: Use Rev E or later

3. Check for running sessions from BOS, CFS, CRUS, FAS, and NMD.

    ```bash
    ncn-w001# sat bootsys shutdown --stage session-checks
    Checking for active BOS sessions.
    Found no active BOS sessions.
    Checking for active CFS sessions.
    Found no active CFS sessions.
    Checking for active CRUS upgrades.
    Found no active CRUS upgrades.
    Checking for active FAS actions.
    Found no active FAS actions.
    Checking for active NMD dumps.
    Found no active NMD dumps.
    No active sessions exist. It is safe to proceed with the shutdown procedure.
    ```

    Coordinate amongst system administration staff to prevent new sessions from starting in the services listed.

    In CLE release 1.3, there is no method to prevent new sessions from being created as long as the service APIs are accessible on the API gateway

4. Shut down and power off all compute nodes and application nodes.

    * v1.3.2 use the "sat bootsys shutdown" command to do compute nodes and application nodes at the same time.
    See the Cray Shasta Administration Guide 1.3 S-8001 RevF (or later) in the section "Shut Down and Power Off Compute and User Access Nodes"

    * v1.3.0 use the "cray bos shutdown command" for the compute nodes and then for the application nodes
    See the Cray Shasta Administration Guide 1.3 S-8001 RevC (or later) in the section "Shut Down and Power Off Compute and User Access Nodes"


<a name="upgrading-bios-and-firmware"></a>
### Upgrading BIOS and Firmware

The management NCNs are expected to have certain minimum firmware installed for BMC, node BIOS, and PCIe card
firmware.

Known issues for Shasta v1.3 systems include:
* Gigabyte nodes should use the Gigabyte Node Firmware Update Guide (1.3.2) S-8010 while booted with Shasta v1.3.2.  However, since v1.3 will never be booted again on this system, there is no need to ensure that the etcd clusters are healthy and that BGP Peering has been ESTABLISHED as recommended in that guide.
* Nodes with Mellanox ConnectX-4 and ConnectX-5 PCIe NICs need to update their firmware.  This should be done while Shasta v1.3.2 is booted.  The Mellanox ConnectX-4 cards will be enabled for PXE booting later.

For minimum NCN firmware versions see [Node Firmware](252-FIRMWARE-NODE.md).

The spine, leaf, CDU, and aggregation network switches from Dell and Mellanox may need updates.

For minimum Network switch versions see [Network Firmware](251-FIRMWARE-NETWORK.md).

Not meeting the minimum versions can result in:

- Misnamed interfaces (missing `hsn0`)
- Malfunctioning bonds (`bond0`)
- Link failures (i.e. QLogic cards set to 10Gbps fixed)
- Malfunctioning or disabled Multi-Chassis LAGG

<a name="recabling"></a>
### Recabling

The Shasta v1.3 system needs to change a few connections.

- [Site Connections](#site-connections)
- [PCIe Connections](#pcie-connections)

<a name="site-connections"></a>
#### Site Connections

Installs in Shasta v1.4 are based on ncn-m001, which functions as the PIT (Pre-Install-Toolkit) node booted
from the LiveCD with Shasta v1.4, instead of ncn-w001, which was the BIS node used for installation with
Shasta v1.3 software. Systems are required to change their cabling to match.

See [moving site connections](309-MOVE-SITE-CONNECTIONS.md) to complete this step.

<a name="pcie-connections"></a>
#### PCIe Connections

This **is strongly encouraged** to prevent overhead when adding new NCNs that the
existing NCNs are recabled to facilitate PCIe PXE booting and "keeping NCNs the same."

Installs for NCNs support PCIe PXE booting for deployment. Previous installations of Shasta v1.3 and
earlier used their onboard interfaces to start PXE, before pivoting to their faster PCIe ports for
Linux install. Now, everything is over the PCIe network interface card.

See [PCIe Net-boot and Recable](304-NCN-PCIE-NET-BOOT-AND-RE-CABLE.md) for information on enabling
PCIe card PXE boot.

<a name="shutdown-kubernetes"></a>
### Shut Down Management Kubernetes Cluster

Shut down Ceph and the Kubernetes management cluster.  This performs several actions to quiesce the
management services and leaves each management NCN running Linux, but no other services.

Shutdown platform services.
  ```bash
  ncn-w001# sat bootsys shutdown --stage platform-services
  ```

<a name="powering-off-ncns"></a>
### Powering off NCNs

The management NCNs need to be powered off to facilitate a 1.4 install. Wiping the node
will avoid boot mistakes, making the only viable option the PXE option.

Below, use Ansible for wiping and shutting down the NCNs. Since 1.3 installs used ncn-w001 as
a place to run Ansible and host Ansible inventory, we'll start by jumping from the manager node to ncn-w001.

  ```bash
  # jumpbox
  ncn-m001# ssh ncn-w001

  # wipe all other nodes and power them off
  ncn-w001# ansible ncn -m shell -a 'wipefs --all --force /dev/sd[a-z]'
  ncn-w001# ansible ncn -m shell --limit='!ncn-w001:!ncn-m001' -a 'ipmitool power off'
  ncn-w001# ipmitool power off
  ```

At this time all that is left on is ncn-m001. The final `ipmitool power off` command should disconnect the administrator, leaving them on ncn-m001.

If the connection fails to disconnect, an administrator can escape and disconnect IPMI without exiting their SSH session by pressing `~~.` until `ipmitool` disconnects.

> Next: Starting an Installation

The system is now ready for [Starting an Installation](#starting-an-installation).

---

<a name="installing-onto-bare-metal-systems"></a>
## Installing onto Bare-metal Systems

Each item below defines a prerequisite necessary for a bare-metal installation to succeed.

> **`NOTE`** On bare-metal, the LiveCD tool will assist with these steps.

* [LiveCD Setup](#livecd-setup)
* [Collect Config Payload](#collect-config-payload)
* [Network Configuration and Firmware](#network-configuration-and-firmware)
* [Upgrading BIOS and Firmware](#upgrading-bios-and-firmware)

<a name="livecd-setup"></a>
### LiveCD Setup

A 1TB USB3.0 USB stick will be required in order to create a bootable LiveCD.

The LiveCD itself can be used out-of-the-box, and with only a little configuration it can serve for
the various bare-metal prerequisite tasks.

Experimental - See **[LiveCD Quick Setup](062-LIVECD-VIRTUAL-ISO-BOOT.md)** for either remote ISO path, this is useful for exploring a new system quickly. Other lab users may prefer a bootable USB stick to enable persistence, and for bringing artifacts for firmware updates.

Once you are booted into a LiveCD, proceed onto the next prerequisite steps for bare-metal.

<a name="collect-config-payload"></a>
### Collect Config Payload

New configuration files are needed for the installation of Shasta v1.4.

See the [Service Guides](300-SERVICE-GUIDES.md) for information regarding the four files.

<a name="network-configuration-and-firmware"></a>
### Network Configuration and Firmware

To complete this step, the network configuration needs to be applied. For information on bare
configurations, firmware, and more, see [Management network install](401-MANAGEMENT-NETWORK-INSTALL.md).

<a name="upgrading-bios-and-firmware"></a>
### Upgrading BIOS and Firmware

The management NCNs are expected to have certain minimum firmware installed for BMC, node BIOS, and PCIe card
firmware.  Where possible, the firmware should be updated prior to install.  Some firmware can be updated
during or after the Shasta v1.4 installation, but it is better to meet the minimum NCN firmware requirement
before starting.

For minimum NCN firmware versions see [Node Firmware](252-FIRMWARE-NODE.md).

The spine, leaf, CDU, and aggregation network switches may need updates.

For minimum Network switch versions see [Network Firmware](251-FIRMWARE-NETWORK.md).

Not meeting the minimum versions can result in:

- Misnamed interfaces (missing `hsn0`)
- Malfunctioning bonds (`bond0`)
- Link failures (i.e. QLogic cards set to 10Gbps fixed)
- Malfunctioning or disabled Multi-Chassis LAGG

> Next: Starting an Installation

The system is now ready for [Starting an Installation](#starting-an-installation).

---

<a name="reinstalling-a-shasta-v14-system"></a>
## Reinstalling a Shasta v1.4 System

The following prerequisites must be completed in order to successfully reinstall Shasta v1.4.

* [Scaling Down DHCP](#scaling-down-dhcp)
* [Power down the NCNs](#power-down-the-ncns)
  * [Degraded System Notice](#degraded-system-notice)
  * [Powering Off](#powering-off)
  * [Set BMCs to back to DHCP](#bmcs-back-to-dhcp)
  * [Powering Off the LiveCD/m001](#powering-off-livecd)

<a name="scaling-down-dhcp"></a>
### Scaling Down DHCP

Runtime DHCP services interfere with the LiveCD's bootstrap nature to provide DHCP leases to BMCs. To remove
edge-cases, disable the run-time cray-dhcp-kea pod.

Scale the deployment from either the LiveCD or any Kubernetes node

```bash
ncn# kubectl scale -n services --replicas=0 deployment cray-dhcp-kea
```

<a name="power-down-the-ncns"></a>
### Power down the NCNs

> UANs and CNs do not need to be powered off.

<a name="degraded-system-notice"></a>
#### Degraded System Notice

If the system is degraded, and the administrator wants to ensure a clean-slated install then a wipe
may be performed to rule out issues with disks and boot-order.

For each NCN **except for ncn-m001**, login and wipe it

```bash
pit# ssh ncn
ncn# wipefs --all --force /dev/sd[a-z]
ncn# wipefs --all --force /dev/disk/by-label/*
ncn# exit
```

<a name="powering-off"></a>
#### Powering Off

The NCNs will auto-wipe on the next install. Optionally, they can be powered down to minimize network
activity.

Power each NCN off using `ipmitool` from ncn-m001 (or the booted LiveCD if reinstalling an incomplete
install).

- Shutdown from **LiveCD** (`pit`)
  ```bash
    pit# export username=root
    pit# export IPMI_PASSWORD=
    pit# conman -q | grep mgmt | xargs -t -i  ipmitool -I lanplus -U $username -E -H {} power off
    ```
- Shutdown from **ncn-m001**
    ```bash
    ncn-m001# export username=root
    ncn-m001# export IPMI_PASSWORD=
    ncn-m001# grep ncn /etc/hosts | grep mgmt | grep -v m001 | sort -u | awk '{print $2}' | xargs -t -i ipmitool -I lanplus -U $username -E -H {} power off
    ```

<a name="bmcs-back-to-dhcp"></a>
### Set the BMCs on the systems back to DHCP

During the install of the NCNs their BMCs get get set to static IP addresses. The install expects the that the NCN BMCs are set back to DHCP before proceeding.

- If on the **LiveCD** (`pit`):
  This step uses the old statics.conf on the system in case CSI changes IPs:

  ```bash
  pit# export username=root
  pit# export IPMI_PASSWORD=

  pit# for h in $( grep mgmt /etc/dnsmasq.d/statics.conf | grep -v m001 | awk -F ',' '{print $2}' )
  do
  ipmitool -U $username -I lanplus -H $h -E lan set 1 ipsrc dhcp
  done

  pit# for h in $( grep mgmt /etc/dnsmasq.d/statics.conf | grep -v m001 | awk -F ',' '{print $2}' )
  do
  ipmitool -U $username -I lanplus -H $h -E lan print 1 | grep Source
  done

  pit# for h in $( grep mgmt /etc/dnsmasq.d/statics.conf | grep -v m001 | awk -F ',' '{print $2}' )
  do
  ipmitool -U $username -I lanplus -H $h -E mc reset cold
  done
  ```

- If on **ncn-m001**:
  This step uses to the `/etc/hosts` file on ncn-m001 to determine the IP addresses of the BMCs:

  ```bash
  ncn-m001# export username=root
  ncn-m001# export IPMI_PASSWORD=
  ncn-m001# for h in $( grep ncn /etc/hosts | grep mgmt | grep -v m001 | awk '{print $2}' )
  do
  ipmitool -U $username -I lanplus -H $h -E lan set 1 ipsrc dhcp
  done

  ncn-m001# for h in $( grep ncn /etc/hosts | grep mgmt | grep -v m001 | awk '{print $2}' )
  do
  ipmitool -U $username -I lanplus -H $h -E lan print 1 | grep Source
  done

  ncn-m001# for h in $( grep ncn /etc/hosts | grep mgmt | grep -v m001 | awk '{print $2}' )
  do
  ipmitool -U $username -I lanplus -H $h -E mc reset cold
  done
  ```


<a name="powering-off-livecd"></a>
#### Powering Off LiveCD or ncn-m001 node
Skip this step if you are planning to use this node as a staging area to create the LiveCD. Lastly, shutdown the LiveCD or ncn-m001 node.
```bash
ncn-m001# poweroff
```

With the nodes off, you can now continue.

> *`Next`*: Starting an Installation

The system is now ready for [Starting an Installation](#starting-an-installation).

---

<a name="starting-an-installation"></a>
# Starting an Installation

**After finishing the prerequisites** an installation can be started one of two ways.

<a name="boot-the-livecd"></a>
## Boot the LiveCD

All installs may be done in full from a LiveCD of any supported medium.

- For preloading on a laptop or Linux node and inserting into a CRAY, click here for starting an installation
  with the (persistent bootable) [CSM USB LiveCD](003-CSM-USB-LIVECD.md).

*Experimental*
- For installing through a remote console, click here for starting an installation with the (
  non-persistent bootable) [CSM Remote LiveCD](004-CSM-REMOTE-LIVECD.md).

> **`NOTICE`** the remote ISO runs entirely in the systems volatile memory.

> For installs using the remote mounted LiveCD (no USB stick), pay attention to memory usage as
artifacts are downloaded and subsequently extracted. When RAM is limited to less than 128GB, memory
pressure may occur from increasing file-system usage.
> For instances where memory is scarce, an NFS/CIF or HTTP/S share can be mounted in-place of the USB's data partition at `/var/www/ephemeral`. Using the same mount point as the USB data partition will help ward off mistakes when following along.

Commit message:

Squashed 'vendor/stash.us.cray.com/scm/mtl/docs-csm-install/' changes from f9ea77ec..a1f10cd9
a1f10cd9 CASMINST-1652 Changing wording to make optional a use case
4b36b7b8 Clarify that one of the checks has to happen on s001
cb56b0b5 CASMTRIAGE-836: More precise about kubectl get nodes time
d9542bcc CASMINST-1519: Reference appendix for proc to review prior secrets for meds/reds/..
9cfa13e3 CASMINST-1596:  Create a careful loop for wiping the NCN disks
29f7af44 CASMINST-1645 add in admin guide reference for Utility Storage
a3c79dbb CASMINST-1648: Call out deploydecryptionkey.sh error as benign
bbd47f83 tweak sentence
b5e08b0e updated SHASTA-CFG site-init prep line
353bd6c7 CASMINST-1640 - Correcting Mellanox firmware versions that were incorrect, according to James Swaro.
b02a1665 Add note about admin guide when rebuild an ncn after handoff

git-subtree-dir: vendor/stash.us.cray.com/scm/mtl/docs-csm-install
git-subtree-split: a1f10cd9856b06bf3e849b4517eff62d302d52c4

002-CSM-INSTALL.md, after:

# CSM Install

This page will prepare you for a CSM install using the LiveCD in different scenarios.

* [Install Prerequisites](#install-prerequisites)
  * [Installing onto Shasta v1.3 Systems](#installing-onto-shasta-v13-systems) for systems which have Shasta v1.3 software and need to move to Shasta v1.4 software.
  * [Installing onto Bare-metal Systems](#installing-onto-bare-metal-systems) for new machines doing their first install of Shasta software.
  * [Reinstalling a Shasta v1.4 System](#reinstalling-a-shasta-v14-system) for previously deployed Shasta v1.4 system.
* [Starting an Installation](#starting-an-installation)
  * [Boot the LiveCD](#boot-the-livecd)

<a name="install-prerequisites"></a>
# Install Prerequisites

The prerequisites for each install scenario are defined here. **All prerequisites must be met
before commencing an installation**.


After finishing any of these prerequisite guides, an administrator may move
to [Starting an Installation](#starting-an-installation).

---

<a name="installing-onto-shasta-v13-systems"></a>
## Installing onto Shasta v1.3 Systems


Each item below defines a prerequisite that must be completed on systems with existing Shasta
v1.3 installations. Optional steps are noted as such.

* [Collect Shasta v1.4 Config Payload](#collect-shasta-14-config-payload)
* [Quiesce Shasta v1.3 System](#quiesce-shasta-13-system)
* [Upgrading BIOS and Firmware](#upgrading-bios-and-firmware)
* [Recabling](#recabling)
  * [Site Connections](#site-connections)
  * [PCIe Connections](#pcie-connections)
* [Shut Down Management Kubernetes Cluster](#shutdown-kubernetes)
* [Powering off NCNs](#powering-off-ncns)

<a name="collect-shasta-14-config-payload"></a>
### Collect Shasta v1.4 Config Payload

Although some configuration data can be saved from a Shasta v1.3 system, there are new configuration files
needed for Shasta v1.4.  Some of this data is easier to collect from a running Shasta v1.3 system.

There may be some operational data to be saved such as any nodes which are disabled or marked down in a
workload manager.  These nodes might need hardware or firmware actions to repair them.  If not addressed,
and the newer firmware in v1.4 does not improve their performance or operation, then these may need to be
disabled with v1.4 as well.

There may be site modifications to the system from v1.3 which are desired in v1.4.  They cannot be directly
copied to v1.4, however, recommendation will be made about what to save.  Some saved information from v1.3
may be referenced when making a similar site modification to v1.3.

See the [Harvest Shasta v1.3 Information](068-HARVEST-13-CONFIG.md) page for the data harvesting procedure.

See the [service guides](300-SERVICE-GUIDES.md) for information regarding the v1.4 configuration files.

<a name="quiesce-shasta-13-system"></a>
### Quiesce Shasta v1.3 System

1. Follow site processes to quiesce the system, such as draining workload manager queues, saving user data somewhere
off the system, and limiting new logins to application nodes.

    Check for running slurm jobs

    ```bash
    ncn-w001# ssh nid001000 squeue -l
    ```

    Check for running PBS jobs

    ```bash
    ncn-w001# ssh nid001000 qstat -Q
    ncn-w001# ssh nid001000 qstat -a
    ```

2. Obtain the authorization key for SAT.

    See System Security and Authentication, Authenticate an Account with the Command Line, SAT
    Authentication in the Cray Shasta Administration Guide 1.3 S-8001 for more information.

    v1.3.0: Use Rev C of the guide
    v1.3.2: Use Rev E or later

3. Check for running sessions from BOS, CFS, CRUS, FAS, and NMD.

    ```bash
    ncn-w001# sat bootsys shutdown --stage session-checks
    Checking for active BOS sessions.
    Found no active BOS sessions.
    Checking for active CFS sessions.
    Found no active CFS sessions.
    Checking for active CRUS upgrades.
    Found no active CRUS upgrades.
    Checking for active FAS actions.
    Found no active FAS actions.
    Checking for active NMD dumps.
    Found no active NMD dumps.
    No active sessions exist. It is safe to proceed with the shutdown procedure.
    ```

    Coordinate amongst system administration staff to prevent new sessions from starting in the services listed.

    In CLE release 1.3, there is no method to prevent new sessions from being created as long as the service APIs are accessible on the API gateway

4. Shut down and power off all compute nodes and application nodes.

    * v1.3.2 use the "sat bootsys shutdown" command to do compute nodes and application nodes at the same time.
    See the Cray Shasta Administration Guide 1.3 S-8001 RevF (or later) in the section "Shut Down and Power Off Compute and User Access Nodes"

    * v1.3.0 use the "cray bos shutdown command" for the compute nodes and then for the application nodes
    See the Cray Shasta Administration Guide 1.3 S-8001 RevC (or later) in the section "Shut Down and Power Off Compute and User Access Nodes"


<a name="upgrading-bios-and-firmware"></a>
### Upgrading BIOS and Firmware

The management NCNs are expected to have certain minimum firmware installed for BMC, node BIOS, and PCIe card
firmware.

Known issues for Shasta v1.3 systems include:
* Gigabyte nodes should use the Gigabyte Node Firmware Update Guide (1.3.2) S-8010 while booted with Shasta v1.3.2.  However, since v1.3 will never be booted again on this system, there is no need to ensure that the etcd clusters are healthy and that BGP Peering has been ESTABLISHED as recommended in that guide.
* Nodes with Mellanox ConnectX-4 and ConnectX-5 PCIe NICs need to update their firmware.  This should be done while Shasta v1.3.2 is booted.  The Mellanox ConnectX-4 cards will be enabled for PXE booting later.

For minimum NCN firmware versions see [Node Firmware](252-FIRMWARE-NODE.md).

The spine, leaf, CDU, and aggregation network switches from Dell and Mellanox may need updates.

For minimum Network switch versions see [Network Firmware](251-FIRMWARE-NETWORK.md).

Not meeting the minimum versions can result in:

- Misnamed interfaces (missing `hsn0`)
- Malfunctioning bonds (`bond0`)
- Link failures (i.e. QLogic cards set to 10Gbps fixed)
- Malfunctioning or disabled Multi-Chassis LAGG

<a name="recabling"></a>
### Recabling

The Shasta v1.3 system needs to change a few connections.

- [Site Connections](#site-connections)
- [PCIe Connections](#pcie-connections)

<a name="site-connections"></a>
#### Site Connections

Installs in Shasta v1.4 are based on ncn-m001, which functions as the PIT (Pre-Install-Toolkit) node booted
from the LiveCD with Shasta v1.4, instead of ncn-w001, which was the BIS node used for installation with
Shasta v1.3 software. Systems are required to change their cabling to match.

See [moving site connections](309-MOVE-SITE-CONNECTIONS.md) to complete this step.

<a name="pcie-connections"></a>
#### PCIe Connections

This **is strongly encouraged** to prevent overhead when adding new NCNs that the
existing NCNs are recabled to facilitate PCIe PXE booting and "keeping NCNs the same."

Installs for NCNs support PCIe PXE booting for deployment. Previous installations of Shasta v1.3 and
earlier used their onboard interfaces to start PXE, before pivoting to their faster PCIe ports for
Linux install. Now, everything is over the PCIe network interface card.

See [PCIe Net-boot and Recable](304-NCN-PCIE-NET-BOOT-AND-RE-CABLE.md) for information on enabling
PCIe card PXE boot.

<a name="shutdown-kubernetes"></a>
### Shut Down Management Kubernetes Cluster

Shut down Ceph and the Kubernetes management cluster.  This performs several actions to quiesce the
management services and leaves each management NCN running Linux, but no other services.

Shutdown platform services.
  ```bash
  ncn-w001# sat bootsys shutdown --stage platform-services
  ```

<a name="powering-off-ncns"></a>
### Powering off NCNs

The management NCNs need to be powered off to facilitate a 1.4 install. Wiping the node
will avoid boot mistakes, making the only viable option the PXE option.

Below, use Ansible for wiping and shutting down the NCNs. Since 1.3 installs used ncn-w001 as
a place to run Ansible and host Ansible inventory, we'll start by jumping from the manager node to ncn-w001.

  ```bash
  # jumpbox
  ncn-m001# ssh ncn-w001

  # wipe all other nodes and power them off
  ncn-w001# ansible ncn -m shell -a 'wipefs --all --force /dev/sd[a-z]'
  ncn-w001# ansible ncn -m shell --limit='!ncn-w001:!ncn-m001' -a 'ipmitool power off'
  ncn-w001# ipmitool power off
  ```

At this time all that is left on is ncn-m001. The final `ipmitool power off` command should disconnect the administrator, leaving them on ncn-m001.

If the connection fails to disconnect, an administrator can escape and disconnect IPMI without exiting their SSH session by pressing `~~.` until `ipmitool` disconnects.

> Next: Starting an Installation

The system is now ready for [Starting an Installation](#starting-an-installation).

---

<a name="installing-onto-bare-metal-systems"></a>
## Installing onto Bare-metal Systems

Each item below defines a prerequisite necessary for a bare-metal installation to succeed.

> **`NOTE`** On bare-metal, the LiveCD tool will assist with these steps.

* [LiveCD Setup](#livecd-setup)
* [Collect Config Payload](#collect-config-payload)
* [Network Configuration and Firmware](#network-configuration-and-firmware)
* [Upgrading BIOS and Firmware](#upgrading-bios-and-firmware)

<a name="livecd-setup"></a>
### LiveCD Setup

A 1TB USB3.0 USB stick will be required in order to create a bootable LiveCD.

The LiveCD itself can be used out-of-the-box, and with only a little configuration it can serve for
the various bare-metal prerequisite tasks.

Experimental - See **[LiveCD Quick Setup](062-LIVECD-VIRTUAL-ISO-BOOT.md)** for either remote ISO path, this is useful for exploring a new system quickly. Other lab users may prefer a bootable USB stick to enable persistence, and for bringing artifacts for firmware updates.

Once you are booted into a LiveCD, proceed onto the next prerequisite steps for bare-metal.

<a name="collect-config-payload"></a>
### Collect Config Payload

New configuration files are needed for the installation of Shasta v1.4.

See the [Service Guides](300-SERVICE-GUIDES.md) for information regarding the four files.

<a name="network-configuration-and-firmware"></a>
### Network Configuration and Firmware

To complete this step, the network configuration needs to be applied. For information on bare
configurations, firmware, and more, see [Management network install](401-MANAGEMENT-NETWORK-INSTALL.md).

<a name="upgrading-bios-and-firmware"></a>
### Upgrading BIOS and Firmware

The management NCNs are expected to have certain minimum firmware installed for BMC, node BIOS, and PCIe card
firmware.  Where possible, the firmware should be updated prior to install.  Some firmware can be updated
during or after the Shasta v1.4 installation, but it is better to meet the minimum NCN firmware requirement
before starting.

For minimum NCN firmware versions see [Node Firmware](252-FIRMWARE-NODE.md).

The spine, leaf, CDU, and aggregation network switches may need updates.

For minimum Network switch versions see [Network Firmware](251-FIRMWARE-NETWORK.md).

Not meeting the minimum versions can result in:

- Misnamed interfaces (missing `hsn0`)
- Malfunctioning bonds (`bond0`)
- Link failures (i.e. QLogic cards set to 10Gbps fixed)
- Malfunctioning or disabled Multi-Chassis LAGG

> Next: Starting an Installation

The system is now ready for [Starting an Installation](#starting-an-installation).

---

<a name="reinstalling-a-shasta-v14-system"></a>
## Reinstalling a Shasta v1.4 System

The following prerequisites must be completed in order to successfully reinstall Shasta v1.4.

* [Scaling Down DHCP](#scaling-down-dhcp)
* [Power down the NCNs](#power-down-the-ncns)
  * [Degraded System Notice](#degraded-system-notice)
  * [Powering Off](#powering-off)
  * [Set BMCs to back to DHCP](#bmcs-back-to-dhcp)
  * [Powering Off the LiveCD/m001](#powering-off-livecd)

<a name="scaling-down-dhcp"></a>
### Scaling Down DHCP

Runtime DHCP services interfere with the LiveCD's bootstrap nature to provide DHCP leases to BMCs. To remove
edge-cases, disable the run-time cray-dhcp-kea pod.

Scale the deployment from either the LiveCD or any Kubernetes node

```bash
ncn# kubectl scale -n services --replicas=0 deployment cray-dhcp-kea
```

<a name="power-down-the-ncns"></a>
### Power down the NCNs

> UANs and CNs do not need to be powered off.

<a name="degraded-system-notice"></a>
#### Degraded System Notice

If the system is degraded, and the administrator wants to ensure a clean-slated install then a wipe
may be performed to rule out issues with disks and boot-order.

For each NCN **except for ncn-m001**, login and wipe it

- Wipe NCN disks from **LiveCD** (`pit`)
    ```bash
    pit# ncns=$(grep Bond0 /etc/dnsmasq.d/statics.conf | grep -v m001 | awk -F',' '{print $6}')
    for h in $ncns; do
        read -r -p "Are you sure you want to wipe the disks on $h? [y/N] " response
        response=${response,,}
        if [[ "$response" =~ ^(yes|y)$ ]]; then
             ssh $h wipefs --all --force /dev/sd[a-z] /dev/disk/by-label/*
        fi
    done
    ```

- Wipe NCN disks from **ncn-m001**
    ```bash
    ncn-m001# ncns=$(grep ncn /etc/hosts | grep nmn | grep -v m001 | awk '{print $3}')
    for h in $ncns; do
        read -r -p "Are you sure you want to wipe the disks on $h? [y/N] " response
        response=${response,,}
        if [[ "$response" =~ ^(yes|y)$ ]]; then
             ssh $h wipefs --all --force /dev/sd[a-z] /dev/disk/by-label/*
        fi
    done
    ```

<a name="powering-off"></a>
#### Powering Off

The NCNs will auto-wipe on the next install. Optionally, they can be powered down to minimize network
activity.

Power each NCN off using `ipmitool` from ncn-m001 (or the booted LiveCD if reinstalling an incomplete
install).

- Shutdown from **LiveCD** (`pit`)
  ```bash
    pit# export username=root
    pit# export IPMI_PASSWORD=
    pit# conman -q | grep mgmt | xargs -t -i  ipmitool -I lanplus -U $username -E -H {} power off
    ```
- Shutdown from **ncn-m001**
    ```bash
    ncn-m001# export username=root
    ncn-m001# export IPMI_PASSWORD=
    ncn-m001# grep ncn /etc/hosts | grep mgmt | grep -v m001 | sort -u | awk '{print $2}' | xargs -t -i ipmitool -I lanplus -U $username -E -H {} power off
    ```

<a name="bmcs-back-to-dhcp"></a>
### Set the BMCs on the systems back to DHCP

During the install of the NCNs their BMCs get get set to static IP addresses. The install expects the that the NCN BMCs are set back to DHCP before proceeding.

- If on the **LiveCD** (`pit`):
  This step uses the old statics.conf on the system in case CSI changes IPs:

  ```bash
  pit# export username=root
  pit# export IPMI_PASSWORD=

  pit# for h in $( grep mgmt /etc/dnsmasq.d/statics.conf | grep -v m001 | awk -F ',' '{print $2}' )
  do
  ipmitool -U $username -I lanplus -H $h -E lan set 1 ipsrc dhcp
  done

  pit# for h in $( grep mgmt /etc/dnsmasq.d/statics.conf | grep -v m001 | awk -F ',' '{print $2}' )
  do
  ipmitool -U $username -I lanplus -H $h -E lan print 1 | grep Source
  done

  pit# for h in $( grep mgmt /etc/dnsmasq.d/statics.conf | grep -v m001 | awk -F ',' '{print $2}' )
  do
  ipmitool -U $username -I lanplus -H $h -E mc reset cold
  done
  ```

- If on **ncn-m001**:
  This step uses to the `/etc/hosts` file on ncn-m001 to determine the IP addresses of the BMCs:

  ```bash
  ncn-m001# export username=root
  ncn-m001# export IPMI_PASSWORD=
  ncn-m001# for h in $( grep ncn /etc/hosts | grep mgmt | grep -v m001 | awk '{print $2}' )
  do
  ipmitool -U $username -I lanplus -H $h -E lan set 1 ipsrc dhcp
  done

  ncn-m001# for h in $( grep ncn /etc/hosts | grep mgmt | grep -v m001 | awk '{print $2}' )
  do
  ipmitool -U $username -I lanplus -H $h -E lan print 1 | grep Source
  done

  ncn-m001# for h in $( grep ncn /etc/hosts | grep mgmt | grep -v m001 | awk '{print $2}' )
  do
  ipmitool -U $username -I lanplus -H $h -E mc reset cold
  done
  ```


<a name="powering-off-livecd"></a>
#### Powering Off LiveCD or ncn-m001 node
Skip this step if you are planning to use this node as a staging area to create the LiveCD. Lastly, shutdown the LiveCD or ncn-m001 node.
```bash
ncn-m001# poweroff
```

With the nodes off, you can now continue.

> *`Next`*: Starting an Installation

The system is now ready for [Starting an Installation](#starting-an-installation).

---

<a name="starting-an-installation"></a>
# Starting an Installation

**After finishing the prerequisites** an installation can be started one of two ways.

<a name="boot-the-livecd"></a>
## Boot the LiveCD

All installs may be done in full from a LiveCD of any supported medium.

- For preloading on a laptop or Linux node and inserting into a CRAY, click here for starting an installation
  with the (persistent bootable) [CSM USB LiveCD](003-CSM-USB-LIVECD.md).

*Experimental*
- For installing through a remote console, click here for starting an installation with the (
  non-persistent bootable) [CSM Remote LiveCD](004-CSM-REMOTE-LIVECD.md).

> **`NOTICE`** the remote ISO runs entirely in the systems volatile memory.

> For installs using the remote mounted LiveCD (no USB stick), pay attention to memory usage as
artifacts are downloaded and subsequently extracted. When RAM is limited to less than 128GB, memory
pressure may occur from increasing file-system usage.
> For instances where memory is scarce, an NFS/CIF or HTTP/S share can be mounted in-place of the USB's data partition at `/var/www/ephemeral`. Using the same mount point as the USB data partition will help ward off mistakes when following along.
