051-DISK-CLEANSLATE.md, before:

# Disk Cleanslate


* [Disk Cleanslate](#disk-cleanslate)
* [Use Cases](#use-cases)
    * [Basic Wipe](#basic-wipe)
    * [Advanced Wipe](#advanced-wipe)
    * [Full Wipe](#full-wipe)

This page will detail how disks are wiped and workarounds for wedged 
disks.

Any process covered on this page will be covered by the installer.

> **Everything in this guide should be considered DESTRUCTIVE**.

After following these procedures an NCN can be rebooted and redeployed.

<a name="use-cases"></a>
## Use Cases

Ideally the Basic Wipe is enough, and should be tried first. All of these procedures may be ran from Linux or an initramFS/initrd emergency shell.

- Adding a node that isn't bare.
- Adopting new disks that aren't bare.
- Fresh-installing.

<a name="basic-wipe"></a>
### Basic Wipe

- Wipe Magic Bits

```bash
# Print off the disks for verification:
ncn# ls -1 /dev/sd* /dev/disk/by-label/*

# Wipe the disks and the RAIDs:
ncn# wipefs --all --force /dev/sd* /dev/disk/by-label/*
```

<a name="advanced-wipe"></a>
### Advanced Wipe

- Clear Ceph
- Wipe Magic Bits

```bash
# Delete CEPH Volumes
ncn-s# systemctl stop ceph-osd.target # Make sure the OSDs (if any) are not running
ncn-s# ls -1 /dev/sd* /dev/disk/by-label/*
ncn-s# vgremove -f --select 'vg_name=~ceph*'

# Wipe the disks and RAIDs:
ncn# wipefs --all --force /dev/sd* /dev/disk/by-label/*
```

<a name="full-wipe"></a>
### Full-Wipe

- Clear Ceph
- Wipe Magic Bits
- Zero disks
- Stop RAIDs

```bash
# Delete CEPH Volumes
ncn-s# systemctl stop ceph-osd.target # Make sure the OSDs (if any) are not running
ncn-s# ls -1 /dev/sd* /dev/disk/by-label/*
ncn-s# vgremove -f --select 'vg_name=~ceph*'


# Nicely stop the RAIDs, or try.
ncn# for md in /dev/md/*; do mdadm -S $md || echo nope ; done


# Wipe the disks and RAIDs:
ncn# sgdisk --zap-all /dev/sd* 
ncn# wipefs --all --force /dev/sd* /dev/disk/by-label/*
```

Commit message:

Squashed 'vendor/stash.us.cray.com/scm/mtl/docs-csm-install/' changes from a441090e..a4626dbe
a4626dbe Add script for making table-of-contents to copy and paste
8feb6e7c CASMINST-1516 Fix 1.4 reinstall flow
8d355303 CASMINST-1711: change default root creds in pre-boot image customization
9d1fca60 CASMINST-1714: Doc fixes based on 2021-03-09 install of 0.8.21 on loki
ab146be4 updated stp docs
a9c4f61e CASMINST-1728: Doc changes for CSI change to support using the MgmtHLSwitch xnames for CDU switches in River cabinets in Hill TDS systems.
0301925b Fix prompts
dd81157d Add linkable ToC to front page
2a5d6570 Add some clarification to the wipe instructions for which nodes each section make sense.

git-subtree-dir: vendor/stash.us.cray.com/scm/mtl/docs-csm-install
git-subtree-split: a4626dbe9983abf76a4753df50e52a50e321f463

051-DISK-CLEANSLATE.md, after:

# Disk Cleanslate


* [Disk Cleanslate](#disk-cleanslate)
* [Use Cases](#use-cases)
    * [Basic Wipe](#basic-wipe)
    * [Advanced Wipe](#advanced-wipe)
    * [Full Wipe](#full-wipe)

This page will detail how disks are wiped and workarounds for wedged 
disks.

Any process covered on this page will be covered by the installer.

> **Everything in this guide should be considered DESTRUCTIVE**.

After following these procedures an NCN can be rebooted and redeployed.

<a name="use-cases"></a>
## Use Cases

Ideally the Basic Wipe is enough, and should be tried first. All of these procedures may be ran from Linux or an initramFS/initrd emergency shell.

- Adding a node that isn't bare.
- Adopting new disks that aren't bare.
- Fresh-installing.

<a name="basic-wipe"></a>
### Basic Wipe

These basic wipe instructions can be executed on all ncn nodes (master, worker and storage).

- Wipe Magic Bits

```bash
# Print off the disks for verification:
ncn# ls -1 /dev/sd* /dev/disk/by-label/*

# Wipe the disks and the RAIDs:
ncn# wipefs --all --force /dev/sd* /dev/disk/by-label/*
```

**NOTE:** The final wipefs command may fail if no labeled disks are found, that's OK.

<a name="advanced-wipe"></a>
### Advanced Wipe

This section is specific to storage nodes.

- Clear Ceph
- Wipe Magic Bits

```bash
# Delete CEPH Volumes
ncn-s# systemctl stop ceph-osd.target # Make sure the OSDs (if any) are not running
ncn-s# ls -1 /dev/sd* /dev/disk/by-label/*
ncn-s# vgremove -f --select 'vg_name=~ceph*'

# Wipe the disks and RAIDs:
ncn# wipefs --all --force /dev/sd* /dev/disk/by-label/*
```

<a name="full-wipe"></a>
### Full-Wipe

This section is also specific to storage nodes.

- Clear Ceph
- Wipe Magic Bits
- Zero disks
- Stop RAIDs

```bash
# Delete CEPH Volumes
ncn-s# systemctl stop ceph-osd.target # Make sure the OSDs (if any) are not running
ncn-s# ls -1 /dev/sd* /dev/disk/by-label/*
ncn-s# vgremove -f --select 'vg_name=~ceph*'


# Nicely stop the RAIDs, or try.
ncn# for md in /dev/md/*; do mdadm -S $md || echo nope ; done


# Wipe the disks and RAIDs:
ncn# sgdisk --zap-all /dev/sd* 
ncn# wipefs --all --force /dev/sd* /dev/disk/by-label/*
```
