066-CEPH-CSI.md, before:

## CEPH CSI


### Verification Check

Verify that the ceph-csi requirements are in place

1. Verify all post ceph install tasks have run
2. Log into any storage node.
3. Check /etc/cray/ceph for completed task files
    ```bash
    ncn-s001# ls /etc/cray/ceph/
    ceph_k8s_initialized  csi_initialized  installed  kubernetes_nodes.txt  tuned
    ```
4. Check to see if k8s ceph-csi prerequisites have been created
   > You can also run this from any k8s-manager/k8s-worker node
      ```bash
      pit# kubectl get cm
      NAME               DATA   AGE
      ceph-csi-config    1      3h50m
      cephfs-csi-sc      1      3h50m
      kube-csi-sc        1      3h50m
      sma-csi-sc         1      3h50m
      sts-rados-config   1      4h

      pit# kubectl get secrets |grep csi
      csi-cephfs-secret             Opaque                                4      3h51m
      csi-kube-secret               Opaque                                2      3h51m
      csi-sma-secret                Opaque                                2      3h51m
      ```

5. check your results against the above example.
6. if you are missing any components then you will want to re-run the storage node cloud-init script
   * log in to ncn-s001
   * ceph -s
       * if it returns a connection error then assume ceph is not installed and you can re-run the cloud-init script
   * ls /etc/cray/ceph
       * if any files are there they will represent completed stages
       * if you have a running cluster you will want to edit the following file and comment out the section shown
            ```bash
            ncn-s001# vi /srv/cray/scripts/common/storage-ceph-cloudinit.sh
            Comment out
            #if [ -f "$ceph_installed_file" ]; then
            #  echo "This ceph cluster has been initialized"
            #else
            #  echo "Installing ceph"
            #  init
            #  mark_initialized $ceph_installed_file
            #fi
            ```
   * run the storage-ceph-cloudinit.sh script
       ```bash
   ncn-s001# /srv/cray/scripts/common/storage-ceph-cloudinit.sh
   Configuring node auditing software
   Using generic auditing configuration
   This ceph cluster has been initialized
   This ceph cluster has already been tuned
   This ceph radosgw config and initial k8s integration already complete
   ceph-csi configuration has been already been completed
       ```
    * if your output is like above then that means that all the steps ran.
      - You can also locate file in /etc/cray/ceph that are create as each step completes
    * if the script failed out then you will have more output for the tasks that are being run.

Commit message:

Squashed 'vendor/stash.us.cray.com/scm/mtl/docs-csm-install/' changes from f9ea77ec..a1f10cd9
a1f10cd9 CASMINST-1652 Changing wording to make optional a use case
4b36b7b8 Clarify that one of the checks has to happen on s001
cb56b0b5 CASMTRIAGE-836: More precise about kubectl get nodes time
d9542bcc CASMINST-1519: Reference appendix for proc to review prior secrets for meds/reds/..
9cfa13e3 CASMINST-1596:  Create a careful loop for wiping the NCN disks
29f7af44 CASMINST-1645 add in admin guide reference for Utility Storage
a3c79dbb CASMINST-1648: Call out deploydecryptionkey.sh error as benign
bbd47f83 tweak sentence
b5e08b0e updated SHASTA-CFG site-init prep line
353bd6c7 CASMINST-1640 - Correcting Mellanox firmware versions that were incorrect, according to James Swaro.
b02a1665 Add note about admin guide when rebuild an ncn after handoff

git-subtree-dir: vendor/stash.us.cray.com/scm/mtl/docs-csm-install
git-subtree-split: a1f10cd9856b06bf3e849b4517eff62d302d52c4

066-CEPH-CSI.md, after:

## CEPH CSI


### Verification Check

Verify that the ceph-csi requirements are in place

1. Verify all post ceph install tasks have run
2. Log into any storage node to perform the following checks, except as noted.
3. **This check can only be done on storage node s001** Check /etc/cray/ceph for completed task files.
    ```bash
    ncn-s001# ls /etc/cray/ceph/
    ceph_k8s_initialized  csi_initialized  installed  kubernetes_nodes.txt  tuned
    ```
4. Check to see if k8s ceph-csi prerequisites have been created
   > You can also run this from any k8s-manager/k8s-worker node
      ```bash
      pit# kubectl get cm
      NAME               DATA   AGE
      ceph-csi-config    1      3h50m
      cephfs-csi-sc      1      3h50m
      kube-csi-sc        1      3h50m
      sma-csi-sc         1      3h50m
      sts-rados-config   1      4h

      pit# kubectl get secrets |grep csi
      csi-cephfs-secret             Opaque                                4      3h51m
      csi-kube-secret               Opaque                                2      3h51m
      csi-sma-secret                Opaque                                2      3h51m
      ```

5. check your results against the above example.
6. if you are missing any components then you will want to re-run the storage node cloud-init script
   * log in to ncn-s001
   * ceph -s
       * if it returns a connection error then assume ceph is not installed and you can re-run the cloud-init script
   * ls /etc/cray/ceph
       * if any files are there they will represent completed stages
       * if you have a running cluster you will want to edit the following file and comment out the section shown
            ```bash
            ncn-s001# vi /srv/cray/scripts/common/storage-ceph-cloudinit.sh
            Comment out
            #if [ -f "$ceph_installed_file" ]; then
            #  echo "This ceph cluster has been initialized"
            #else
            #  echo "Installing ceph"
            #  init
            #  mark_initialized $ceph_installed_file
            #fi
            ```
   * run the storage-ceph-cloudinit.sh script
       ```bash
   ncn-s001# /srv/cray/scripts/common/storage-ceph-cloudinit.sh
   Configuring node auditing software
   Using generic auditing configuration
   This ceph cluster has been initialized
   This ceph cluster has already been tuned
   This ceph radosgw config and initial k8s integration already complete
   ceph-csi configuration has been already been completed
       ```
    * if your output is like above then that means that all the steps ran.
      - You can also locate file in /etc/cray/ceph that are create as each step completes
    * if the script failed out then you will have more output for the tasks that are being run.
