109-COMPUTE-CABINET-ROUTES-FOR-NCN.md, before:

# Cabinet Routing
Mountain, Hill and River Compute cabinets require routes on all NCN worker Nodes.  The following script should be applied to all NCN worker nodes or networking between the workers and the cabinets for both NMN and HMN will not work.

Requires:
* Platform installation
* Running and configured SLS
* Post m001 reboot

Apply the following script to all workers which will idempotently apply live and persisted routes for the cabinets as configured by CSI and stored in SLS:
```
#!/bin/bash


export TOKEN=$(curl -s -k -S -d grant_type=client_credentials -d client_id=admin-client -d client_secret=`kubectl get secrets admin-client-auth -o jsonpath='{.data.client-secret}' | base64 -d` https://api-gw-service-nmn.local/keycloak/realms/shasta/protocol/openid-connect/token | jq -r '.access_token')
export URL="https://api_gw_service.local/apis/sls/v1/networks"

function on_error() {
   echo "Error: $1.  Exiting" 
   exit 1
}

function set_routes() {
    local network=$1
    local subnets=$2
    local gateway=$3

    for subnet in ${subnets}
    do
        # Live routes
        if [[ -z $(ip route show ${subnet} via ${gateway}) ]]
        then
            echo "Adding missing ${network} route:  ip route add ${subnet} via ${gateway}"
            /sbin/ip route add ${subnet} via ${gateway}
        fi

        # Persisted routes
        route_file="/etc/sysconfig/network/ifroute-bond0"
        [[ -f ${route_file} ]] || touch ${route_file}

        egrep "${subnet}.*${gateway}.*\-.*bond0" ${route_file} 2>&1>>/dev/null
        if [[ $? != 0 ]]
        then
            echo "Adding missing route in ${route_file}"
            echo "${subnet} ${gateway} - bond0" >> ${route_file}
        fi
    done
}


#
# Collect network information from SLS
#
nmn_hmn_networks=$(curl -k -H "Authorization: Bearer ${TOKEN}" ${URL} 2>/dev/null | jq ".[] | {NetworkName: .Name, Subnets: .ExtraProperties.Subnets[]} | { NetworkName: .NetworkName, SubnetName: .Subnets.Name, SubnetCIDR: .Subnets.CIDR, Gateway: .Subnets.Gateway} | select(.SubnetName==\"network_hardware\") ")
[[ ! -z ${nmn_hmn_networks} ]] || on_error "Cannot retrieve HMN and NMN networks from SLS. Check SLS connectivity."
cabinet_networks=$(curl -k -H "Authorization: Bearer ${TOKEN}" ${URL} 2>/dev/null | jq ".[] | {NetworkName: .Name, Subnets: .ExtraProperties.Subnets[]} | { NetworkName: .NetworkName, SubnetName: .Subnets.Name, SubnetCIDR: .Subnets.CIDR} | select(.SubnetName | startswith(\"cabinet_\")) ")
[[ ! -z ${cabinet_networks} ]] || on_error "Cannot retrieve cabinet networks from SLS. Check SLS connectivity."


#
# NMN
#
gateway=$(echo ${nmn_hmn_networks} | jq -r ". | select(.NetworkName==\"NMN\") | .Gateway")
[[ ! -z ${gateway} ]] || on_error "NMN gateway not found"
cabinet_subnets=$(echo ${cabinet_networks} | jq -r ". | select(.NetworkName==\"NMN\" or .NetworkName==\"NMN_RVR\" or .NetworkName==\"NMN_MTN\") | .SubnetCIDR")
[[ ! -z ${cabinet_subnets} ]] || on_error "NMN cabinet subnets not found"
set_routes "NMN" "${cabinet_subnets}" "${gateway}"


#
# HMN
#
gateway=$(echo ${nmn_hmn_networks} | jq -r ". | select(.NetworkName==\"HMN\") | .Gateway")
[[ ! -z ${gateway} ]] || on_error "HMN gateway not found"
cabinet_subnets=$(echo ${cabinet_networks} | jq -r ". | select(.NetworkName==\"HMN\" or .NetworkName==\"HMN_RVR\" or .NetworkName==\"HMN_MTN\") | .SubnetCIDR")
[[ ! -z ${cabinet_subnets} ]] || on_error "HMN cabinet subnets not found"
set_routes "HMN" "${cabinet_subnets}" "${gateway}"
```

Commit message:

Squashed 'vendor/stash.us.cray.com/scm/mtl/docs-csm-install/' changes from 7543c876..946fcc66
946fcc66 Merge branch 'create-ncn-customization-doc' into release/shasta-1.4
7487b1e2 Merge pull request #307 in MTL/docs-csm-install from CASMTRIAGE-712-shasta-1.4 to release/shasta-1.4
905a32b2 Add note about weave split brain (shasta-1.4)
0bcaf8bc Merge pull request #309 in MTL/docs-csm-install from STP-2112-fas to release/shasta-1.4
f3b3c74e added procedures to update the system with FAS
7e40ed52 Merge pull request #308 in MTL/docs-csm-install from CASMNET-435 to release/shasta-1.4
5fc11f48 Add post m001 reboot route additions to docs
24112c51 Add ToC entry and amend docs to include master NCNs.
fd27a0f8 Merge pull request #305 in MTL/docs-csm-install from CASMINST-773-typo to release/shasta-1.4
1c8e83a1 Add stub for redfish
8c4fd391 Fix references
0ce767c7 bump
c22e3323 Split ncn devel content out for more direct referencing

git-subtree-dir: vendor/stash.us.cray.com/scm/mtl/docs-csm-install
git-subtree-split: 946fcc6650d3c1148167c4aae7b74ad705881fc1

109-COMPUTE-CABINET-ROUTES-FOR-NCN.md, after:

# Cabinet Routing
NCNs require additional routing to enable access to Mountain, Hill and River Compute cabinets.
The following script should be **applied to all NCN worker and master nodes**.

Requires:
* Platform installation
* Running and configured SLS
* Post m001 reboot

Apply the following script to all workers and masters. This idempotent script will apply live and persisted routes for the cabinets as configured by CSI and stored in SLS:
```
#!/bin/bash


export TOKEN=$(curl -s -k -S -d grant_type=client_credentials -d client_id=admin-client -d client_secret=`kubectl get secrets admin-client-auth -o jsonpath='{.data.client-secret}' | base64 -d` https://api-gw-service-nmn.local/keycloak/realms/shasta/protocol/openid-connect/token | jq -r '.access_token')
export URL="https://api_gw_service.local/apis/sls/v1/networks"

function on_error() {
   echo "Error: $1.  Exiting" 
   exit 1
}

function set_routes() {
    local network=$1
    local subnets=$2
    local gateway=$3

    for subnet in ${subnets}
    do
        # Live routes
        if [[ -z $(ip route show ${subnet} via ${gateway}) ]]
        then
            echo "Adding missing ${network} route:  ip route add ${subnet} via ${gateway}"
            /sbin/ip route add ${subnet} via ${gateway}
        fi

        # Persisted routes
        route_file="/etc/sysconfig/network/ifroute-bond0"
        [[ -f ${route_file} ]] || touch ${route_file}

        egrep "${subnet}.*${gateway}.*\-.*bond0" ${route_file} 2>&1>>/dev/null
        if [[ $? != 0 ]]
        then
            echo "Adding missing route in ${route_file}"
            echo "${subnet} ${gateway} - bond0" >> ${route_file}
        fi
    done
}


#
# Collect network information from SLS
#
nmn_hmn_networks=$(curl -k -H "Authorization: Bearer ${TOKEN}" ${URL} 2>/dev/null | jq ".[] | {NetworkName: .Name, Subnets: .ExtraProperties.Subnets[]} | { NetworkName: .NetworkName, SubnetName: .Subnets.Name, SubnetCIDR: .Subnets.CIDR, Gateway: .Subnets.Gateway} | select(.SubnetName==\"network_hardware\") ")
[[ ! -z ${nmn_hmn_networks} ]] || on_error "Cannot retrieve HMN and NMN networks from SLS. Check SLS connectivity."
cabinet_networks=$(curl -k -H "Authorization: Bearer ${TOKEN}" ${URL} 2>/dev/null | jq ".[] | {NetworkName: .Name, Subnets: .ExtraProperties.Subnets[]} | { NetworkName: .NetworkName, SubnetName: .Subnets.Name, SubnetCIDR: .Subnets.CIDR} | select(.SubnetName | startswith(\"cabinet_\")) ")
[[ ! -z ${cabinet_networks} ]] || on_error "Cannot retrieve cabinet networks from SLS. Check SLS connectivity."


#
# NMN
#
gateway=$(echo ${nmn_hmn_networks} | jq -r ". | select(.NetworkName==\"NMN\") | .Gateway")
[[ ! -z ${gateway} ]] || on_error "NMN gateway not found"
cabinet_subnets=$(echo ${cabinet_networks} | jq -r ". | select(.NetworkName==\"NMN\" or .NetworkName==\"NMN_RVR\" or .NetworkName==\"NMN_MTN\") | .SubnetCIDR")
[[ ! -z ${cabinet_subnets} ]] || on_error "NMN cabinet subnets not found"
set_routes "NMN" "${cabinet_subnets}" "${gateway}"


#
# HMN
#
gateway=$(echo ${nmn_hmn_networks} | jq -r ". | select(.NetworkName==\"HMN\") | .Gateway")
[[ ! -z ${gateway} ]] || on_error "HMN gateway not found"
cabinet_subnets=$(echo ${cabinet_networks} | jq -r ". | select(.NetworkName==\"HMN\" or .NetworkName==\"HMN_RVR\" or .NetworkName==\"HMN_MTN\") | .SubnetCIDR")
[[ ! -z ${cabinet_subnets} ]] || on_error "HMN cabinet subnets not found"
set_routes "HMN" "${cabinet_subnets}" "${gateway}"
```
