110-NCN-IMAGE-CUSTOMIZATION.md, before:

# NCN Image Customization

The LiveCD is equipped for "re-squashing" an SquashFS images.

* [Boot Customization](#boot-customization)
    * [Set the Default Password](#set-the-default-password)
* [Image Layer Pipeline](#image-layer-pipeline)


<a name="boot-customization"></a>
### Boot Customization


<a name="set-the-default-password"></a>
#### Set the Default Password

_Using kubernetes as an example._

1. Open the image, ours is called `k8s-filesystem.squashfs`.
   ```bash
   pit# cd /var/www/ephemeral/data/k8s
   pit# unsquash k8s-filesystem.squashfs
   ```
2. Change into the image root
   ```bash
   pit# chroot ./squashfs-root
   ```
3. Change the password
   ```bash
   chroot-pit# passwd
   ```
4. Create the new squashFS artifact
   ```bash
   chroot-pit# /srv/cray/scripts/common/create-kis-artifacts.sh
   ```
5. Exit the chroot
   ```bash
   chroot-pit# exit
   ```
6. Cleanup the squash creation
   ```bash
   pit# umount /var/www/ephemeral/data/k8s/squasfs-root/squashfs
   ```
7. Set boot links
   ```bash
   pit# set-sqfs-links.sh   
   ```

Now the next boot your images will have the new password for the next boot.

<a name="image-layer-pipeline"></a>
### Image Layer Pipeline

For more information on how the pipeline works, see the [node-image-docs](https://stash.us.cray.com/projects/CLOUD/repos/node-image-docs/browse).

Commit message:

Squashed 'vendor/stash.us.cray.com/scm/mtl/docs-csm-install/' changes from a441090e..a4626dbe
a4626dbe Add script for making table-of-contents to copy and paste
8feb6e7c CASMINST-1516 Fix 1.4 reinstall flow
8d355303 CASMINST-1711: change default root creds in pre-boot image customization
9d1fca60 CASMINST-1714: Doc fixes based on 2021-03-09 install of 0.8.21 on loki
ab146be4 updated stp docs
a9c4f61e CASMINST-1728: Doc changes for CSI change to support using the MgmtHLSwitch xnames for CDU switches in River cabinets in Hill TDS systems.
0301925b Fix prompts
dd81157d Add linkable ToC to front page
2a5d6570 Add some clarification to the wipe instructions for which nodes each section make sense.

git-subtree-dir: vendor/stash.us.cray.com/scm/mtl/docs-csm-install
git-subtree-split: a4626dbe9983abf76a4753df50e52a50e321f463

110-NCN-IMAGE-CUSTOMIZATION.md, after:

# NCN Image Customization

The LiveCD is equipped for "re-squashing" an SquashFS images.

* [Boot Customization](#boot-customization)
    * [Set the Default Password](#set-the-default-password)
* [Image Layer Pipeline](#image-layer-pipeline)


<a name="boot-customization"></a>
### Boot Customization


<a name="set-the-default-password"></a>
#### Set the Default Password

_Using kubernetes as an example. This should be repeated for the other NCN squashfs filesystems._

1. Open the image, ours is called `k8s-filesystem.squashfs`
   ```bash
   pit# cd /var/www/ephemeral/data/k8s
   pit# unsquash k8s-filesystem.squashfs
   ```
2. Change into the image root
   ```bash
   pit# chroot ./squashfs-root
   ```
3. Change the password
   ```bash
   chroot-pit# passwd
   ```
4. Replace the ssh keys
   ```bash
   chroot-pit# cd root
   ```
   Replace the default root public and private ssh keys with your own or generate a new pair with `ssh-keygen(1)`

5. Create the new squashFS artifact
   ```bash
   chroot-pit# /srv/cray/scripts/common/create-kis-artifacts.sh
   ```
6. Exit the chroot
   ```bash
   chroot-pit# exit
   ```
7. Cleanup the squash creation
   ```bash
   pit# umount /var/www/ephemeral/data/k8s/squasfs-root/squashfs
   ```
8. Repeat the previous steps for the other image types and then set the boot links
   ```bash
   pit# set-sqfs-links.sh   
   ```

Now the next boot your images will have the new password for the next boot.

<a name="image-layer-pipeline"></a>
### Image Layer Pipeline

For more information on how the pipeline works, see the [node-image-docs](https://stash.us.cray.com/projects/CLOUD/repos/node-image-docs/browse).
