250-FIRMWARE.md, before:

# Node Firmware

Firmware and BIOS updates may be necessary before an install can start.

During runtime, firmware is upgraded using FAS.

New systems, or systems upgrading from prior versions of shasta, must meet the minimum specs defined in these pages:
- [Network Firmware](251-FIRMWARE-NETWORK.md)
- [Node Firmware](252-FIRMWARE-NODE.md)

> **`NOTE`** Only network devices and non-compute nodes upgrade firmware prior to a shasta-1.4.x install or upgrade. Other devices, such as compute nodes, provision upgrades from [FAS](#firmware-action-service-for-runtime).

## LiveCD Availability for Bootstrap

The LiveCD serves firmware for bootstrapping devices and servers to enable a CRAY install.

Devices can use SCP or HTTP to fetch firmware from the LiveCD USB stick, or from the remote ISO.

- http://pit/fw/
- http://pit.nmn/fw/
- http://pit.hmn/fw/
- http://pit.can/fw/
- `scp://<username>:<password>@pit/var/www/fw/`

> Any interface of the LiveCD may be used in place of the above DNS names.

## Firmware Action Service for Runtime

The Firmware Action Service (FAS) tracks and performs actions (upgrade, downgrade, restore, create.snapshot) on system firmware.

FAS is a runtime service deployed in Kubernetes.

#### Fresh Install

Fresh installs on bare-metal use FAS for upgrading compute node firmware.

Commit message:

Squashed 'vendor/stash.us.cray.com/scm/mtl/docs-csm-install/' changes from 7543c876..946fcc66
946fcc66 Merge branch 'create-ncn-customization-doc' into release/shasta-1.4
7487b1e2 Merge pull request #307 in MTL/docs-csm-install from CASMTRIAGE-712-shasta-1.4 to release/shasta-1.4
905a32b2 Add note about weave split brain (shasta-1.4)
0bcaf8bc Merge pull request #309 in MTL/docs-csm-install from STP-2112-fas to release/shasta-1.4
f3b3c74e added procedures to update the system with FAS
7e40ed52 Merge pull request #308 in MTL/docs-csm-install from CASMNET-435 to release/shasta-1.4
5fc11f48 Add post m001 reboot route additions to docs
24112c51 Add ToC entry and amend docs to include master NCNs.
fd27a0f8 Merge pull request #305 in MTL/docs-csm-install from CASMINST-773-typo to release/shasta-1.4
1c8e83a1 Add stub for redfish
8c4fd391 Fix references
0ce767c7 bump
c22e3323 Split ncn devel content out for more direct referencing

git-subtree-dir: vendor/stash.us.cray.com/scm/mtl/docs-csm-install
git-subtree-split: 946fcc6650d3c1148167c4aae7b74ad705881fc1

250-FIRMWARE.md, after:

## Warning

**WARNING:** Non-compute nodes (NCNs) should be locked with the HSM locking API to ensure they are not unintentionally updated by FAS. Research "*009-NCN-LOCKING*" for more information. Failure to lock the NCNs could result in unintentional update of the NCNs if FAS is not used correctly; this will lead to system instability problems.

# Node Firmware

Firmware and BIOS updates may be necessary before an install can start.

During runtime (e.g. post CSM-install), firmware is upgraded using FAS.

New systems, or systems upgrading from prior versions of shasta, must meet the minimum specs defined in these pages:
- [Network Firmware](251-FIRMWARE-NETWORK.md)
- [Node Firmware](252-FIRMWARE-NODE.md)

> **`NOTE`** Only network devices and non-compute nodes upgrade firmware prior to a shasta-1.4.x install or upgrade. Other devices, such as compute nodes, provision upgrades from [FAS](#firmware-action-service-for-runtime).

## LiveCD Availability for Bootstrap

The LiveCD serves firmware for bootstrapping devices and servers to enable a CRAY install.

Devices can use SCP or HTTP to fetch firmware from the LiveCD USB stick, or from the remote ISO.

- http://pit/fw/
- http://pit.nmn/fw/
- http://pit.hmn/fw/
- http://pit.can/fw/
- `scp://<username>:<password>@pit/var/www/fw/`

> Any interface of the LiveCD may be used in place of the above DNS names.

## Firmware Action Service for Runtime

The Firmware Action Service (FAS) tracks and performs actions (upgrade, downgrade, restore, create.snapshot) on system firmware.

FAS is a runtime service deployed in Kubernetes.

#### Fresh Install

Fresh installs on bare-metal use FAS for upgrading compute node firmware.
