253-NCN-HW-SWAP.md, before:

# NCN Hardware Swaps

This page will detail cases for various hardware changes.

- [Node Components](#node-components)
- [Nodes](#nodes)
    - [Rebooting Servers](#rebooting-nodes)
        - [CEPH](#ceph)
        - [Kubernetes](#kubernetes)
- [Safely Removing Nodes from Runtime](#safely-removing-nodes-from-runtime)
    - [Rebuilding CEPH NCNs](#rebuilding-ceph-ncns)
        - [Quorum](#quorum)
    - [Rebuilding K8s NCNs](#rebuilding-k8s-ncns)
        - [Master nodes](#master-nodes)
        - [Worker nodes](#worker-nodes)


<a name='node-components'></a>
# Node Components

Malfunctioning or disabled hardware may need to be removed, or upgrades may want to be installed.

For either case, certain hardware requires that the node be shutdown prior to operations.

| Component | Server Off | Rebuild Required |
| --- | --- | --- |
| cpu | Yes | No |
| ram | Yes | No |
| OS disks | No | No [^1] |
| Ephemeral disks | No | Yes |
| gpu | Yes | No |
| nic | Yes | Yes |

[^1]: If replacing **all** OS disks then a rebuild is required.

<a name='rebooting-nodes'></a>
### Rebooting Nodes

For operations that do not require a rebuild, a power off and cold boot will suffice.

<a name='ceph'></a>
#### CEPH

> **`STUB`** This is a stub that requires code snippets to step-wise replace a storage node (short of rebuilding everything).

<a name='kubernetes'></a>
#### Kubernetes

If the node can be powered off nicely by issuing a `poweroff` command on the CLi, then it will evict its containers
and unmount etcd. On power-up it will re-join.

If the node is unresponsive, you can alert the cluster that you will be rebooting it by evicing the node:
```bash
linux# kubectl drain ncn-w002
```

Then you can reboot, and nicely tell the node to add the node back.
```bash
linux# kubectl uncordon ncn-w002
```

<a name='nodes'></a>
# Nodes

Swapping a node for an entirely new node mandates a "rebuild" (or a "build" if this is the first use).

<a name='safely-removing-nodes-from-runtime'></a>
# Safely Removing Nodes from Runtime

<a name='rebuilding-ceph-ncns'></a>
## Rebuilding CEPH NCNs

> **`STUB`** This is a stub that requires code snippets to step-wise replace a storage node (short of rebuilding everything).

<a name='quorum'></a>
### Quorum

> **`STUB`** This is a stub that requires definition of constraints put on by the ceph cluster when rebuilding nodes.


<a name='rebuilding-k8s-ncns'></a>
## Rebuilding Kubernetes NCNs

<a name='master-nodes'></a>
### Master Nodes

If etcd has met quorum, if there are 3 master nodes active, then etcd must expunge the node we're rebuilding.

1. Evict etcd:
    > **`STUB`** This is a stub that requires code snippets to search-and-destroy OOM.
2. Follow the procedure for [worker nodes](#worker-nodes).


<a name='worker-nodes'></a>
### Worker Nodes

It is dangerous to run with 2 worker nodes or less, work must be done with diligence or pod clean-up will be necessary. Kubernetes pods will begin to throw Out-Of-Memory error after some time.

1. Drain the target worker node, issue the command from your laptop (if authenticated) or from an ingress node (such as ncn-m001):
    ```bash
    linux# kubectl drain ncn-w002
    linux# kubectl delete ncn-w002
    ```

2. Power down the node either in rack, or with `ipmitool`
    ```bash
    IPMI_PASSWORD=
    username=root
    ipmitool -I lanplus -U $username -E -H ncn-w002-mgmt power off
    ```
3. Now commence the operations on the node.

4. Once ready, power the node on in the rack or with `ipmitool`
    ```bash
    IPMI_PASSWORD=
    username=root
    ipmitool -I lanplus -U $username -E -H ncn-w002-mgmt power on
    ```
5. The node will netboot from sysmgmt services (kea/unbound/s3/bss).

> **`NOTE`** If sysmgmt services are not booting the NCN, and the LiveCD is still available. See [069 Toggle PXE Sources](./069-TOGGLE-PXE-SOURCES.md) for pivoting boot services temporarily back to the LiveCD.

6. The node will run cloud-init and will auto-join the cluster again. Monitor for status with:
    ```bash
    linux# kubectl get nodes -w 
    ```

Once your node returns to the cluster, the procedure is done.

<a name='cleaning-up-out-of-memory-pods'></a>
##### Cleaning up Out-Of-Memory Pods

> **`STUB`** This is a stub that requires code snippets to search-and-destroy OOM.

Commit message:

Squashed 'vendor/stash.us.cray.com/scm/mtl/docs-csm-install/' changes from f9ea77ec..a1f10cd9
a1f10cd9 CASMINST-1652 Changing wording to make optional a use case
4b36b7b8 Clarify that one of the checks has to happen on s001
cb56b0b5 CASMTRIAGE-836: More precise about kubectl get nodes time
d9542bcc CASMINST-1519: Reference appendix for proc to review prior secrets for meds/reds/..
9cfa13e3 CASMINST-1596:  Create a careful loop for wiping the NCN disks
29f7af44 CASMINST-1645 add in admin guide reference for Utility Storage
a3c79dbb CASMINST-1648: Call out deploydecryptionkey.sh error as benign
bbd47f83 tweak sentence
b5e08b0e updated SHASTA-CFG site-init prep line
353bd6c7 CASMINST-1640 - Correcting Mellanox firmware versions that were incorrect, according to James Swaro.
b02a1665 Add note about admin guide when rebuild an ncn after handoff

git-subtree-dir: vendor/stash.us.cray.com/scm/mtl/docs-csm-install
git-subtree-split: a1f10cd9856b06bf3e849b4517eff62d302d52c4

253-NCN-HW-SWAP.md, after:

# NCN Hardware Swaps

This page will detail cases for various hardware changes.

- [Node Components](#node-components)
- [Nodes](#nodes)
    - [Rebooting Servers](#rebooting-nodes)
        - [CEPH](#ceph)
        - [Kubernetes](#kubernetes)
- [Safely Removing Nodes from Runtime](#safely-removing-nodes-from-runtime)
    - [Rebuilding CEPH NCNs](#rebuilding-ceph-ncns)
        - [Quorum](#quorum)
    - [Rebuilding K8s NCNs](#rebuilding-k8s-ncns)
        - [Master nodes](#master-nodes)
        - [Worker nodes](#worker-nodes)


<a name='node-components'></a>
# Node Components

Malfunctioning or disabled hardware may need to be removed, or upgrades may want to be installed.

For either case, certain hardware requires that the node be shutdown prior to operations.

| Component | Server Off | Rebuild Required |
| --- | --- | --- |
| cpu | Yes | No |
| ram | Yes | No |
| OS disks | No | No [^1] |
| Ephemeral disks | No | Yes |
| gpu | Yes | No |
| nic | Yes | Yes |

[^1]: If replacing **all** OS disks then a rebuild is required.

> **NOTE:** These instructions only apply prior to booting off the LiveCD -- once that step is complete refer to the "Rebuild NCNs" section in the HPE Cray EX Hardware Management Administration Guide S-8015.

<a name='rebooting-nodes'></a>
### Rebooting Nodes

For operations that do not require a rebuild, a power off and cold boot will suffice.

<a name='ceph'></a>
#### CEPH

> **`STUB`** This is a stub that requires code snippets to step-wise replace a storage node (short of rebuilding everything).

<a name='kubernetes'></a>
#### Kubernetes

If the node can be powered off nicely by issuing a `poweroff` command on the CLi, then it will evict its containers
and unmount etcd. On power-up it will re-join.

If the node is unresponsive, you can alert the cluster that you will be rebooting it by evicing the node:
```bash
linux# kubectl drain ncn-w002
```

Then you can reboot, and nicely tell the node to add the node back.
```bash
linux# kubectl uncordon ncn-w002
```

<a name='nodes'></a>
# Nodes

Swapping a node for an entirely new node mandates a "rebuild" (or a "build" if this is the first use).

<a name='safely-removing-nodes-from-runtime'></a>
# Safely Removing Nodes from Runtime

<a name='rebuilding-ceph-ncns'></a>
## Rebuilding CEPH NCNs

> **`STUB`** This is a stub that requires code snippets to step-wise replace a storage node (short of rebuilding everything).

<a name='quorum'></a>
### Quorum

> **`STUB`** This is a stub that requires definition of constraints put on by the ceph cluster when rebuilding nodes.


<a name='rebuilding-k8s-ncns'></a>
## Rebuilding Kubernetes NCNs

<a name='master-nodes'></a>
### Master Nodes

If etcd has met quorum, if there are 3 master nodes active, then etcd must expunge the node we're rebuilding.

1. Evict etcd:
    > **`STUB`** This is a stub that requires code snippets to search-and-destroy OOM.
2. Follow the procedure for [worker nodes](#worker-nodes).


<a name='worker-nodes'></a>
### Worker Nodes

It is dangerous to run with 2 worker nodes or less, work must be done with diligence or pod clean-up will be necessary. Kubernetes pods will begin to throw Out-Of-Memory error after some time.

1. Drain the target worker node, issue the command from your laptop (if authenticated) or from an ingress node (such as ncn-m001):
    ```bash
    linux# kubectl drain ncn-w002
    linux# kubectl delete ncn-w002
    ```

2. Power down the node either in rack, or with `ipmitool`
    ```bash
    IPMI_PASSWORD=
    username=root
    ipmitool -I lanplus -U $username -E -H ncn-w002-mgmt power off
    ```
3. Now commence the operations on the node.

4. Once ready, power the node on in the rack or with `ipmitool`
    ```bash
    IPMI_PASSWORD=
    username=root
    ipmitool -I lanplus -U $username -E -H ncn-w002-mgmt power on
    ```
5. The node will netboot from sysmgmt services (kea/unbound/s3/bss).

> **`NOTE`** If sysmgmt services are not booting the NCN, and the LiveCD is still available. See [069 Toggle PXE Sources](./069-TOGGLE-PXE-SOURCES.md) for pivoting boot services temporarily back to the LiveCD.

6. The node will run cloud-init and will auto-join the cluster again. Monitor for status with:
    ```bash
    linux# kubectl get nodes -w 
    ```

Once your node returns to the cluster, the procedure is done.

<a name='cleaning-up-out-of-memory-pods'></a>
##### Cleaning up Out-Of-Memory Pods

> **`STUB`** This is a stub that requires code snippets to search-and-destroy OOM.
