306-SLS-ADD-UAN-ALIAS.md, before:

# Manually add UAN Aliases to SLS
### Prerequisites 
* SLS is up and running and has been populated with data.
* Access to the API gateway `api-gw-service` (legacy: `api-gw-service-nmn.local`)

### About this task
This guide shows the process for manually adding aliases to UAN nodes in SLS. Steps 3 & 4 of this guide can be repeated for each UAN alias that needs to be added in SLS. This guide is intended to be ran on any k8s node that has access to the API gateway `api-gw-service` (current/legacy: `api-gw-service-nmn.local`).

### Procedure
1. Authenticate with Keycloak to obtain an API token:
    ```bash
    export TOKEN=$(curl -k -s -S -d grant_type=client_credentials \
                              -d client_id=admin-client \
                              -d client_secret=`kubectl get secrets admin-client-auth -o jsonpath='{.data.client-secret}' | base64 -d` \
                              https://api-gw-service-nmn.local/keycloak/realms/shasta/protocol/openid-connect/token | jq -r '.access_token')
    ```

  2. Find the xname of the UAN by searching through all Application nodes until found.
    ```bash
    curl -s -k -H "Authorization: Bearer ${TOKEN}" "https://api_gw_service.local/apis/sls/v1/search/hardware?extra_properties.Role=Application" | jq
    ```

    This will return an array of application nodes currently known in SLS:
    ```json
    ncn-w001# curl -s -k -H "Authorization: Bearer ${TOKEN}" "https://api_gw_service.local/apis/sls/v1/search/hardware?extra_properties.Role=Application" | jq
    [
      {
        "Parent": "x3000c0s19b0",
        "Xname": "x3000c0s19b0n0",
        "Type": "comptype_node",
        "Class": "River",
        "TypeString": "Node",
        "LastUpdated": 1606332877,
        "LastUpdatedTime": "2020-11-25 19:34:37.183293 +0000 +0000",
        "ExtraProperties": {
          "Role": "Application",
          "SubRole": "UAN"
        }
      }
    ]
    ```

3. Update the UAN object in SLS by adding Aliases array with the UAN's hostname.
    ```json
    curl -X PUT -s -k -H "Authorization: Bearer ${TOKEN}" "https://api_gw_service.local/apis/sls/v1/hardware/<UAN_XNAME>" -d '
    {
      "Parent": "<UAN_PARENT_XNAME>",
      "Xname": "<UAN_XNAME>",
      "Type": "comptype_node",
      "Class": "River",
      "TypeString": "Node",
      "ExtraProperties": {
        "Role": "Application",
        "SubRole": "UAN",
        "Aliases": ["<UAN_ALIAS>"]
      }
    }'
    ```
    Replace `<UAN_XNAME>` in the URL and JSON object with the UAN's xname.
    Replace `<UAN_PARENT_XNAME>` in the JSON object with the UAN's parent xname.
    Replace `<UAN_ALIAS>` in the Aliases array with the UAN's hostname.
    The `LastUpdated` and `LastUpdatedTime` fields are not required to be in the PUT payload.

    Using the response from Step 2, we can build the following command. The hostname for this uan is `uan01`, and this is reflected in the added `Aliases` field in the UAN's `ExtraProperties`.
    ```json
    curl -X PUT -s -k -H "Authorization: Bearer ${TOKEN}" "https://api_gw_service.local/apis/sls/v1/hardware/x3000c0s19b0n0" -d '
    {
      "Parent": "x3000c0s19b0",
      "Xname": "x3000c0s19b0n0",
      "Type": "comptype_node",
      "Class": "River",
      "TypeString": "Node",
      "ExtraProperties": {
        "Role": "Application",
        "SubRole": "UAN",
        "Aliases": ["uan01"]
      }
    }'
    ```

    Example response:
    ```json
    ncn-w001# curl -X PUT -s -k -H "Authorization: Bearer ${TOKEN}" "https://api_gw_service.local/apis/sls/v1/hardware/x3000c0s19b0n0" -d '
    > {
    >   "Parent": "x3000c0s19b0",
    >   "Xname": "x3000c0s19b0n0",
    >   "Type": "comptype_node",
    >   "Class": "River",
    >   "TypeString": "Node",
    >   "ExtraProperties": {
    >     "Role": "Application",
    >     "SubRole": "UAN",
    >     "Aliases": ["uan01"]
    >   }
    > }'
    {"Parent":"x3000c0s19b0","Xname":"x3000c0s19b0n0","Type":"comptype_node","Class":"River","TypeString":"Node","LastUpdated":1606332877,"LastUpdatedTime":"2020-11-25 19:34:37.183293 +0000 +0000","ExtraProperties":{"Aliases":["uan01"],"Role":"Application","SubRole":"UAN"}}
    ```

    After a few minutes the -mgmt name should begin resolving. Communication with the BMC should be available via the alias `uan01-mgmt`.

4. Confirm that the BMC for the UAN is up and running at the alasied address.
    ```
    ncn-w001# ping -c 4 uan01-mgmt
    PING uan01-mgmt (10.254.2.53) 56(84) bytes of data.
    64 bytes from x3000c0s19b0 (10.254.2.53): icmp_seq=1 ttl=255 time=0.170 ms
    64 bytes from x3000c0s19b0 (10.254.2.53): icmp_seq=2 ttl=255 time=0.228 ms
    64 bytes from x3000c0s19b0 (10.254.2.53): icmp_seq=3 ttl=255 time=0.311 ms
    64 bytes from x3000c0s19b0 (10.254.2.53): icmp_seq=4 ttl=255 time=0.240 ms

    --- uan01-mgmt ping statistics ---
    4 packets transmitted, 4 received, 0% packet loss, time 3061ms
    rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 0.170/0.237/0.311/0.051 ms
    ```

    When this node boots, the DHCP request of it's -nmn interface will cause the uan01 to be created and resolved.

Commit message:

Squashed 'vendor/stash.us.cray.com/scm/mtl/docs-csm-install/' changes from a1f10cd..537cf30
537cf30 CASMINST-1670 Add procedure for adjusting boot order
f0e9163 Linked ssh key rotation note to WAR script path.
4a8b16c CASMINST-1653 Add NCN BIOS Settings
304912b CASMINST-1667: add note regarding ssh key rotation
3399e08 CASMINST-1684: Re-added missing commands to re-run cloud init.
0cac436 tweak
05699c0 CASMINST-1672: Doc edits based on surtur 0.8.20 install
9063705 Wrong active FSLabel
f451283 Merge
fd1b197 make more copy-pastable
a6431e8 CASMINST-1668 tweak to select the right disks
ccead22 CASMINST-1605 procedure to fix faulty ncn_metadata.csv file
e3af0a0 spaces
6814cb2 updated L3 docs to include leaf/hill config
8aff77b CASMINST-1664: Remove use of PDSH
03ff598 CASMINST-1664: Add validation procedures for spire-agent and vault
72b42b3 Fix typo.
32e1f42 Update internal use instructions for HMS tests.
4de4a90 Added more information about REDS, MEDS, and RTS creds secrets.
a7bb0d7 Various fixes and edits based on surtur 0.8.19 install and proofreading
aadea3b CASMINST-1668 Wipe before rebooting LiveCD
794239b CASMCMS-6792 - add steps to check console connections.
15107f3 toc for cleanslate

git-subtree-dir: vendor/stash.us.cray.com/scm/mtl/docs-csm-install
git-subtree-split: 537cf303908df44b321e4ed2561e903e1e949bf7

306-SLS-ADD-UAN-ALIAS.md, after:

# Manually add UAN Aliases to SLS
### Prerequisites 
* SLS is up and running and has been populated with data.
* Access to the API gateway `api-gw-service` (legacy: `api-gw-service-nmn.local`)

### About this task
This guide shows the process for manually adding aliases to UAN nodes in SLS. Steps 3 & 4 of this guide can be repeated for each UAN alias that needs to be added in SLS. This guide is intended to be ran on any k8s node that has access to the API gateway `api-gw-service` (current/legacy: `api-gw-service-nmn.local`).

### Procedure
1. Authenticate with Keycloak to obtain an API token:
    ```bash
    export TOKEN=$(curl -k -s -S -d grant_type=client_credentials \
                              -d client_id=admin-client \
                              -d client_secret=`kubectl get secrets admin-client-auth -o jsonpath='{.data.client-secret}' | base64 -d` \
                              https://api-gw-service-nmn.local/keycloak/realms/shasta/protocol/openid-connect/token | jq -r '.access_token')
    ```

  2. Find the xname of the UAN by searching through all Application nodes until found.
    ```bash
    curl -s -k -H "Authorization: Bearer ${TOKEN}" "https://api_gw_service.local/apis/sls/v1/search/hardware?extra_properties.Role=Application" | jq
    ```

    This will return an array of application nodes currently known in SLS:
    ```json
    ncn-w001# curl -s -k -H "Authorization: Bearer ${TOKEN}" "https://api_gw_service.local/apis/sls/v1/search/hardware?extra_properties.Role=Application" | jq
    [
      {
        "Parent": "x3000c0s19b0",
        "Xname": "x3000c0s19b0n0",
        "Type": "comptype_node",
        "Class": "River",
        "TypeString": "Node",
        "LastUpdated": 1606332877,
        "LastUpdatedTime": "2020-11-25 19:34:37.183293 +0000 +0000",
        "ExtraProperties": {
          "Role": "Application",
          "SubRole": "UAN"
        }
      }
    ]
    ```

3. Update the UAN object in SLS by adding Aliases array with the UAN's hostname.
    ```json
    curl -X PUT -s -k -H "Authorization: Bearer ${TOKEN}" "https://api_gw_service.local/apis/sls/v1/hardware/<UAN_XNAME>" -d '
    {
      "Parent": "<UAN_PARENT_XNAME>",
      "Xname": "<UAN_XNAME>",
      "Type": "comptype_node",
      "Class": "River",
      "TypeString": "Node",
      "ExtraProperties": {
        "Role": "Application",
        "SubRole": "UAN",
        "Aliases": ["<UAN_ALIAS>"]
      }
    }'
    ```
    Replace `<UAN_XNAME>` in the URL and JSON object with the UAN's xname.
    Replace `<UAN_PARENT_XNAME>` in the JSON object with the UAN's parent xname.
    Replace `<UAN_ALIAS>` in the Aliases array with the UAN's hostname.
    The `LastUpdated` and `LastUpdatedTime` fields are not required to be in the PUT payload.

    Using the response from Step 2, we can build the following command. The hostname for this uan is `uan01`, and this is reflected in the added `Aliases` field in the UAN's `ExtraProperties`.
    ```json
    curl -X PUT -s -k -H "Authorization: Bearer ${TOKEN}" "https://api_gw_service.local/apis/sls/v1/hardware/x3000c0s19b0n0" -d '
    {
      "Parent": "x3000c0s19b0",
      "Xname": "x3000c0s19b0n0",
      "Type": "comptype_node",
      "Class": "River",
      "TypeString": "Node",
      "ExtraProperties": {
        "Role": "Application",
        "SubRole": "UAN",
        "Aliases": ["uan01"]
      }
    }'
    ```

    Example response:
    ```json
    ncn-w001# curl -X PUT -s -k -H "Authorization: Bearer ${TOKEN}" "https://api_gw_service.local/apis/sls/v1/hardware/x3000c0s19b0n0" -d '
    > {
    >   "Parent": "x3000c0s19b0",
    >   "Xname": "x3000c0s19b0n0",
    >   "Type": "comptype_node",
    >   "Class": "River",
    >   "TypeString": "Node",
    >   "ExtraProperties": {
    >     "Role": "Application",
    >     "SubRole": "UAN",
    >     "Aliases": ["uan01"]
    >   }
    > }'
    {"Parent":"x3000c0s19b0","Xname":"x3000c0s19b0n0","Type":"comptype_node","Class":"River","TypeString":"Node","LastUpdated":1606332877,"LastUpdatedTime":"2020-11-25 19:34:37.183293 +0000 +0000","ExtraProperties":{"Aliases":["uan01"],"Role":"Application","SubRole":"UAN"}}
    ```

    After a few minutes the -mgmt name should begin resolving. Communication with the BMC should be available via the alias `uan01-mgmt`.

4. Confirm that the BMC for the UAN is up and running at the aliased address.
    ```
    ncn-w001# ping -c 4 uan01-mgmt
    PING uan01-mgmt (10.254.2.53) 56(84) bytes of data.
    64 bytes from x3000c0s19b0 (10.254.2.53): icmp_seq=1 ttl=255 time=0.170 ms
    64 bytes from x3000c0s19b0 (10.254.2.53): icmp_seq=2 ttl=255 time=0.228 ms
    64 bytes from x3000c0s19b0 (10.254.2.53): icmp_seq=3 ttl=255 time=0.311 ms
    64 bytes from x3000c0s19b0 (10.254.2.53): icmp_seq=4 ttl=255 time=0.240 ms

    --- uan01-mgmt ping statistics ---
    4 packets transmitted, 4 received, 0% packet loss, time 3061ms
    rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 0.170/0.237/0.311/0.051 ms
    ```

    When this node boots, the DHCP request of it's -nmn interface will cause the uan01 to be created and resolved.

5. Confirm that the UAN is being monitored by the cray-conman service

    Use kubectl to exec into the running cray-conman pod, then check the existing connections.
    ```
    cray-conman-b69748645-qtfxj:/ # conman -q | grep x3000c0s19b0
    cray-conman-b69748645-qtfxj:/ #
    ```

    If the node is not being reported as connected to conman, the conman service will need to
    be re-initialized.  This is done by killing the existing conmand process.
    ```
    cray-conman-b69748645-qtfxj:/ # ps -ax | grep conmand
     13 ?           Sl     0:45 conmand -F -v -c /etc/conman.conf
     56704 pts/3    S+     0:00 grep conmand
    cray-conman-b69748645-qtfxj:/ # kill 13
    ```

    If the UAN has been successfully discovered by hsm, it should now be monitored by conman.
    ```
    cray-conman-b69748645-qtfxj:/ # conman -q | grep x3000c0s19b0
    x3000c0s19b0
    cray-conman-b69748645-qtfxj:/ #
    ```
