400-SWITCH-BGP-NEIGHBORS.md, before:

# Verify and Update BGP neighbors

This page will detail how to manually configure and verify BGP neighbors on the management switches.

- How do I check the status of the BGP neighbors?
- Log into the spine switches and run `show bgp ipv4 unicast summary` for Aruba/HPE switches and `show ip bgp summary` for Mellanox.
- Are my Neighbors stuck in IDLE? running `clear ip bgp all` on the mellanox and `clear bgp *` on the Arubas will restart the BGP process, this process may need to be done when a system is reinstalled.  If only some neighbors are showing `ESTABLISHED` you may need to run the command multiple times for all the BGP peers to come up. 
- The BGP neighbors will be the worker NCN IPs on the NMN (node management network) (VLAN002). If your system is using HPE/Aruba, one of the neighbors will be the other spine switch.
- On the Aruba/HPE switches properly configured BGP will look like the following.


# Automated Process
- There is an automated script to update the BGP configuration on both the Mellanox and Aruba switches.  This script is located on the liveCD at ```/root/bin```
- The scripts are named ```mellanox_set_bgp_peers.py``` and ```aruba_set_bgp_peers.py```
- This script pulls in data from CSI generated .yaml files. The files required are ```CAN.yaml, HMN.yaml, HMNLB.yaml, NMNLB.yaml, NMN.yaml```
```
USAGE: - <Spine01/Agg01> <Spine02/Agg02> <Path to CSI generated network files>

       - The IPs used should be Node Management Network IPs (NMN), these IPs will be what's used for the BGP Router-ID.

       - The path must include CAN.yaml', 'HMN.yaml', 'HMNLB.yaml', 'NMNLB.yaml', 'NMN.yaml

Example: ./aruba_set_bgp_peers.py 10.252.0.2 10.252.0.3 /var/www/ephemeral/prep/redbull/networks
```
- After this script is run you will need to verify the configuration and verify the BGP peers are ```ESTABLISHED```

# Manual Process

```
sw-spine01# show bgp ipv4 unicast summary
VRF : default
BGP Summary
-----------
 Local AS               : 65533        BGP Router Identifier  : 10.252.0.1     
 Peers                  : 4            Log Neighbor Changes   : No             
 Cfg. Hold Time         : 180          Cfg. Keep Alive        : 60             

 Neighbor        Remote-AS MsgRcvd MsgSent   Up/Down Time State        AdminStatus
 10.252.0.3      65533       31457   31474   00m:02w:04d  Established   Up         
 10.252.2.8      65533       54730   62906   00m:02w:04d  Established   Up         
 10.252.2.9      65533       54732   62927   00m:02w:04d  Established   Up         
 10.252.2.18     65533       54732   62911   00m:02w:04d  Established   Up 
 ```
 On the Mellanox switches the output should look like the following.
 
 ```
 sw-spine01 [standalone: master] # show ip bgp summary 

VRF name                  : default
BGP router identifier     : 10.252.0.1
local AS number           : 65533
BGP table version         : 308
Main routing table version: 308
IPV4 Prefixes             : 261
IPV6 Prefixes             : 0
L2VPN EVPN Prefixes       : 0

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Neighbor          V    AS           MsgRcvd   MsgSent   TblVer    InQ    OutQ   Up/Down       State/PfxRcd        
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
10.252.0.7        4    65533        37421     42948     308       0      0      12:23:16:07   ESTABLISHED/53
10.252.0.8        4    65533        37421     42920     308       0      0      12:23:16:07   ESTABLISHED/51
10.252.0.9        4    65533        37420     42962     308       0      0      12:23:16:07   ESTABLISHED/51
```
- If the BGP neighbors are not in the `ESTABLISHED` state make sure the IPs are correct for the route-map and BGP configuration.
- If IPs are incorrect you will have to update the configuration to match the IPs, the configuration below will need to be edited.
- You can get the NCN IPs from the CSI generated files (NMN.yaml, CAN.yaml, HMN.yaml), these IPs are also located in /etc/dnsmasq.d/statics.conf on the LiveCD/m001.

```
root@fanta-ncn-m001-pit 2021-01-15 12:28:57 /etc/dnsmasq.d # cat statics.conf | grep w00 | grep nmn
host-record=ncn-w003,ncn-w003.nmn,10.252.1.13
host-record=ncn-w002,ncn-w002.nmn,10.252.1.14
host-record=ncn-w001,ncn-w001.nmn,10.252.1.15
```
- The route-map configuration will require you to get the HMN, and CAN IPs as well.
```
root@fanta-ncn-m001-pit 2021-01-15 13:17:06 /etc/dnsmasq.d # grep ncn-w statics.conf | egrep "NMN|HMN|CAN" | grep -v mgmt
dhcp-host=50:6b:4b:08:d0:4a,10.252.1.13,ncn-w003,20m # NMN
dhcp-host=50:6b:4b:08:d0:4a,10.254.1.20,ncn-w003,20m # HMN
dhcp-host=50:6b:4b:08:d0:4a,10.102.4.12,ncn-w003,20m # CAN
dhcp-host=98:03:9b:0f:39:4a,10.252.1.14,ncn-w002,20m # NMN
dhcp-host=98:03:9b:0f:39:4a,10.254.1.22,ncn-w002,20m # HMN
dhcp-host=98:03:9b:0f:39:4a,10.102.4.13,ncn-w002,20m # CAN
dhcp-host=98:03:9b:bb:a9:94,10.252.1.15,ncn-w001,20m # NMN
dhcp-host=98:03:9b:bb:a9:94,10.254.1.24,ncn-w001,20m # HMN
dhcp-host=98:03:9b:bb:a9:94,10.102.4.14,ncn-w001,20m # CAN
```
- The Aruba configuration will require you to set the other peering switch as a BGP neighbor, the mellanox configuration does not require this. 
- You will need to delete the previous route-map, and BGP configuration on both switches.
Aruba delete commands.
```
spine01# conf t

spine01(config)# no router  bgp 65533                          
This will delete all BGP configurations on this device.
Continue (y/n)? y

spine01(config)# no route-map ncn-w003
spine01(config)# no route-map ncn-w002
spine01(config)# no route-map ncn-w001
```
Aruba configuration example.
```
route-map rm-ncn-w001 permit seq 10
     match ip address prefix-list pl-nmn
     set ip next-hop 10.252.2.8
route-map rm-ncn-w001 permit seq 20
     match ip address prefix-list pl-hmn
     set ip next-hop 10.254.2.27
route-map rm-ncn-w001 permit seq 30
     match ip address prefix-list pl-can
     set ip next-hop 10.103.10.10
route-map rm-ncn-w002 permit seq 10
     match ip address prefix-list pl-nmn
     set ip next-hop 10.252.2.9
route-map rm-ncn-w002 permit seq 20
     match ip address prefix-list pl-hmn
     set ip next-hop 10.254.2.25
route-map rm-ncn-w002 permit seq 30
     match ip address prefix-list pl-can
     set ip next-hop 10.103.10.9
route-map rm-ncn-w003 permit seq 10
     match ip address prefix-list pl-nmn
     set ip next-hop 10.252.2.18
route-map rm-ncn-w003 permit seq 20
     match ip address prefix-list pl-hmn
     set ip next-hop 10.254.2.26
route-map rm-ncn-w003 permit seq 30
     match ip address prefix-list pl-can
     set ip next-hop 10.103.10.11
!                                                              
router bgp 65533
    bgp router-id 10.252.0.1
    maximum-paths 8
    neighbor 10.252.0.3 remote-as 65533
    neighbor 10.252.2.8 remote-as 65533
    neighbor 10.252.2.9 remote-as 65533
    neighbor 10.252.2.18 remote-as 65533
    address-family ipv4 unicast
        neighbor 10.252.0.3 activate
        neighbor 10.252.2.8 activate
        neighbor 10.252.2.8 route-map ncn-w001 in
        neighbor 10.252.2.9 activate
        neighbor 10.252.2.9 route-map ncn-w002 in
        neighbor 10.252.2.18 activate
        neighbor 10.252.2.18 route-map ncn-w003 in
    exit-address-family
```
Mellanox delete commands.
```
sw-spine01 [standalone: master] # 
sw-spine01 [standalone: master] # conf t
sw-spine01 [standalone: master] (config) # no router bgp 65533
sw-spine01 [standalone: master] (config) # no route-map ncn-w001
sw-spine01 [standalone: master] (config) # no route-map ncn-w002
sw-spine01 [standalone: master] (config) # no route-map ncn-w003
```
Mellanox configuration example.
```
## Route-maps configuration
##
   route-map rm-ncn-w001 permit 10 match ip address pl-nmn
   route-map rm-ncn-w001 permit 10 set ip next-hop 10.252.0.7
   route-map rm-ncn-w001 permit 20 match ip address pl-hmn
   route-map rm-ncn-w001 permit 20 set ip next-hop 10.254.0.7
   route-map rm-ncn-w001 permit 30 match ip address pl-can
   route-map rm-ncn-w001 permit 30 set ip next-hop 10.103.8.7
   route-map rm-ncn-w002 permit 10 match ip address pl-nmn
   route-map rm-ncn-w002 permit 10 set ip next-hop 10.252.0.8
   route-map rm-ncn-w002 permit 20 match ip address pl-hmn
   route-map rm-ncn-w002 permit 20 set ip next-hop 10.254.0.8
   route-map rm-ncn-w002 permit 30 match ip address pl-can
   route-map rm-ncn-w002 permit 30 set ip next-hop 10.103.8.8
   route-map rm-ncn-w003 permit 10 match ip address pl-nmn
   route-map rm-ncn-w003 permit 10 set ip next-hop 10.252.0.9
   route-map rm-ncn-w003 permit 20 match ip address pl-hmn
   route-map rm-ncn-w003 permit 20 set ip next-hop 10.254.0.9
   route-map rm-ncn-w003 permit 30 match ip address pl-can
   route-map rm-ncn-w003 permit 30 set ip next-hop 10.103.8.9
   
##
## BGP configuration
##
   protocol bgp
   router bgp 65533 vrf default
   router bgp 65533 vrf default router-id 10.252.0.1 force
   router bgp 65533 vrf default maximum-paths ibgp 32
   router bgp 65533 vrf default neighbor 10.252.0.7 remote-as 65533
   router bgp 65533 vrf default neighbor 10.252.0.7 route-map ncn-w001
   router bgp 65533 vrf default neighbor 10.252.0.8 remote-as 65533
   router bgp 65533 vrf default neighbor 10.252.0.8 route-map ncn-w002
   router bgp 65533 vrf default neighbor 10.252.0.9 remote-as 65533
   router bgp 65533 vrf default neighbor 10.252.0.9 route-map ncn-w003
   router bgp 65533 vrf default neighbor 10.252.0.10 remote-as 65533
```

- Once the IPs are updated for the route-maps and BGP neighbors you may need to restart the BGP process on the switches, you do this by running `clear ip bgp all` on the mellanox and `clear bgp *` on the Arubas. (This may need to be done multiple times for all the peers to come up)
- When workers are reinstalled the BGP process will need to be restarted. 
- If the BGP peers are still not coming up you should check the Metallb.yaml config file for errors.  The Metallb config file should point to the NMN IPs of the switches configured.

Metallb.yaml configuration example.
- If your management network has Aggregation switches setup and you are peering with them, the Metallb.yaml configuration file will need to be updated to reflect these IPs.
- The peer-address should be the IP of the switch that you are doing BGP peering with.  
```
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  namespace: metallb-system
  name: config
data:
  config: |
    peers:
    - peer-address: 10.252.0.2
      peer-asn: 65533
      my-asn: 65533
    - peer-address: 10.252.0.3
      peer-asn: 65533
      my-asn: 65533
    address-pools:
    - name: customer-access
      protocol: bgp
      addresses:
      - 10.102.9.112/28
    - name: customer-access-dynamic
      protocol: bgp
      addresses:
      - 10.102.9.128/25
    - name: hardware-management
      protocol: bgp
      addresses:
      - 10.94.100.0/24
    - name: node-management
      protocol: bgp
      addresses:
      - 10.92.100.0/24
```

Commit message:

Squashed 'vendor/stash.us.cray.com/scm/mtl/docs-csm-install/' changes from c66f731..0308229
0308229 Pinning build sources
c95fef9 Merge pull request #181 in MTL/docs-csm-install from feature/CASMINST-686 to main
6720743 Merge pull request #178 in MTL/docs-csm-install from bugfix/CASMINST-1211-missing-mellanox-IP-helper to main
61fc8b5 Merge pull request #176 in MTL/docs-csm-install from feature/CASMINST-1218 to main
34e4f9c Merge pull request #180 in MTL/docs-csm-install from origin/bugfix/CASMINST-989-peers-in-metallb.yaml-need-to-be-aggregation-switches-on-some-systems to main
8f25414 gigabyte notes for booting to virtual iso
c46fbe9 added BGP/Agg docs
d3261a8 Revert "Added BGP configuration options"
41422e2 Added BGP configuration options
6272fa0 CASMINST-1218: Break shasta-cfg prep and wars into their own sections
e6324c7 CASMINST-1218: Defer to SHASTA-CFG instructions to reduce confusion
c7b946d added NTP configuration page
04a9716 updated 412 to include IP-helper configuration
7dcb607 CASMINST-1218: Add customization edits for sealed secrets
fd33265 add troubleshooting section
REVERT: c66f731 Merge remote-tracking branch 'origin/main' into release/shasta-1.4
REVERT: 96dfdeb Merge branch 'main' into release/shasta-1.4
REVERT: 7b5c4f4 Merge branch 'main' into release/shasta-1.4
REVERT: bf09ac9 Pinning build sources

git-subtree-dir: vendor/stash.us.cray.com/scm/mtl/docs-csm-install
git-subtree-split: 0308229f791ca4cbb8aa6650d1c4629872203063

400-SWITCH-BGP-NEIGHBORS.md, after:

# Verify and Update BGP neighbors

This page will detail how to manually configure and verify BGP neighbors on the management switches.

- How do I check the status of the BGP neighbors?
- Log into the spine switches and run `show bgp ipv4 unicast summary` for Aruba/HPE switches and `show ip bgp summary` for Mellanox.
- Are my Neighbors stuck in IDLE? running `clear ip bgp all` on the mellanox and `clear bgp *` on the Arubas will restart the BGP process, this process may need to be done when a system is reinstalled.  If only some neighbors are showing `ESTABLISHED` you may need to run the command multiple times for all the BGP peers to come up. 
- The BGP neighbors will be the worker NCN IPs on the NMN (node management network) (VLAN002). If your system is using HPE/Aruba, one of the neighbors will be the other spine switch.
- On the Aruba/HPE switches properly configured BGP will look like the following.

# Generate Metallb configmap
- Depending on the network architecture of your system you may need to peer with switches other than the spines.  CSI has a BGP peers argument that accepts 'aggregation' as an option, if no option is defined it will default to the spines as being the metallb peers. 

CSI bgp peers argument.
```
--bgp-peers aggregation
```

# Automated Process
- There is an automated script to update the BGP configuration on both the Mellanox and Aruba switches.  This script is located on the liveCD at ```/root/bin```
- The scripts are named ```mellanox_set_bgp_peers.py``` and ```aruba_set_bgp_peers.py```
- This script pulls in data from CSI generated .yaml files. The files required are ```CAN.yaml, HMN.yaml, HMNLB.yaml, NMNLB.yaml, NMN.yaml```
```
USAGE: - <Spine01/Agg01> <Spine02/Agg02> <Path to CSI generated network files>

       - The IPs used should be Node Management Network IPs (NMN), these IPs will be what's used for the BGP Router-ID.

       - The path must include CAN.yaml', 'HMN.yaml', 'HMNLB.yaml', 'NMNLB.yaml', 'NMN.yaml

Example: ./aruba_set_bgp_peers.py 10.252.0.2 10.252.0.3 /var/www/ephemeral/prep/redbull/networks
```
- After this script is run you will need to verify the configuration and verify the BGP peers are ```ESTABLISHED```

# Manual Process

```
sw-spine01# show bgp ipv4 unicast summary
VRF : default
BGP Summary
-----------
 Local AS               : 65533        BGP Router Identifier  : 10.252.0.1     
 Peers                  : 4            Log Neighbor Changes   : No             
 Cfg. Hold Time         : 180          Cfg. Keep Alive        : 60             

 Neighbor        Remote-AS MsgRcvd MsgSent   Up/Down Time State        AdminStatus
 10.252.0.3      65533       31457   31474   00m:02w:04d  Established   Up         
 10.252.2.8      65533       54730   62906   00m:02w:04d  Established   Up         
 10.252.2.9      65533       54732   62927   00m:02w:04d  Established   Up         
 10.252.2.18     65533       54732   62911   00m:02w:04d  Established   Up 
 ```
 On the Mellanox switches the output should look like the following.
 
 ```
 sw-spine01 [standalone: master] # show ip bgp summary 

VRF name                  : default
BGP router identifier     : 10.252.0.1
local AS number           : 65533
BGP table version         : 308
Main routing table version: 308
IPV4 Prefixes             : 261
IPV6 Prefixes             : 0
L2VPN EVPN Prefixes       : 0

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Neighbor          V    AS           MsgRcvd   MsgSent   TblVer    InQ    OutQ   Up/Down       State/PfxRcd        
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
10.252.0.7        4    65533        37421     42948     308       0      0      12:23:16:07   ESTABLISHED/53
10.252.0.8        4    65533        37421     42920     308       0      0      12:23:16:07   ESTABLISHED/51
10.252.0.9        4    65533        37420     42962     308       0      0      12:23:16:07   ESTABLISHED/51
```
- If the BGP neighbors are not in the `ESTABLISHED` state make sure the IPs are correct for the route-map and BGP configuration.
- If IPs are incorrect you will have to update the configuration to match the IPs, the configuration below will need to be edited.
- You can get the NCN IPs from the CSI generated files (NMN.yaml, CAN.yaml, HMN.yaml), these IPs are also located in /etc/dnsmasq.d/statics.conf on the LiveCD/m001.

```
root@fanta-ncn-m001-pit 2021-01-15 12:28:57 /etc/dnsmasq.d # cat statics.conf | grep w00 | grep nmn
host-record=ncn-w003,ncn-w003.nmn,10.252.1.13
host-record=ncn-w002,ncn-w002.nmn,10.252.1.14
host-record=ncn-w001,ncn-w001.nmn,10.252.1.15
```
- The route-map configuration will require you to get the HMN, and CAN IPs as well.
```
root@fanta-ncn-m001-pit 2021-01-15 13:17:06 /etc/dnsmasq.d # grep ncn-w statics.conf | egrep "NMN|HMN|CAN" | grep -v mgmt
dhcp-host=50:6b:4b:08:d0:4a,10.252.1.13,ncn-w003,20m # NMN
dhcp-host=50:6b:4b:08:d0:4a,10.254.1.20,ncn-w003,20m # HMN
dhcp-host=50:6b:4b:08:d0:4a,10.102.4.12,ncn-w003,20m # CAN
dhcp-host=98:03:9b:0f:39:4a,10.252.1.14,ncn-w002,20m # NMN
dhcp-host=98:03:9b:0f:39:4a,10.254.1.22,ncn-w002,20m # HMN
dhcp-host=98:03:9b:0f:39:4a,10.102.4.13,ncn-w002,20m # CAN
dhcp-host=98:03:9b:bb:a9:94,10.252.1.15,ncn-w001,20m # NMN
dhcp-host=98:03:9b:bb:a9:94,10.254.1.24,ncn-w001,20m # HMN
dhcp-host=98:03:9b:bb:a9:94,10.102.4.14,ncn-w001,20m # CAN
```
- The Aruba configuration will require you to set the other peering switch as a BGP neighbor, the mellanox configuration does not require this. 
- You will need to delete the previous route-map, and BGP configuration on both switches.
Aruba delete commands.
```
spine01# conf t

spine01(config)# no router  bgp 65533                          
This will delete all BGP configurations on this device.
Continue (y/n)? y

spine01(config)# no route-map ncn-w003
spine01(config)# no route-map ncn-w002
spine01(config)# no route-map ncn-w001
```
Aruba configuration example.
```
route-map rm-ncn-w001 permit seq 10
     match ip address prefix-list pl-nmn
     set ip next-hop 10.252.2.8
route-map rm-ncn-w001 permit seq 20
     match ip address prefix-list pl-hmn
     set ip next-hop 10.254.2.27
route-map rm-ncn-w001 permit seq 30
     match ip address prefix-list pl-can
     set ip next-hop 10.103.10.10
route-map rm-ncn-w002 permit seq 10
     match ip address prefix-list pl-nmn
     set ip next-hop 10.252.2.9
route-map rm-ncn-w002 permit seq 20
     match ip address prefix-list pl-hmn
     set ip next-hop 10.254.2.25
route-map rm-ncn-w002 permit seq 30
     match ip address prefix-list pl-can
     set ip next-hop 10.103.10.9
route-map rm-ncn-w003 permit seq 10
     match ip address prefix-list pl-nmn
     set ip next-hop 10.252.2.18
route-map rm-ncn-w003 permit seq 20
     match ip address prefix-list pl-hmn
     set ip next-hop 10.254.2.26
route-map rm-ncn-w003 permit seq 30
     match ip address prefix-list pl-can
     set ip next-hop 10.103.10.11
!                                                              
router bgp 65533
    bgp router-id 10.252.0.1
    maximum-paths 8
    neighbor 10.252.0.3 remote-as 65533
    neighbor 10.252.2.8 remote-as 65533
    neighbor 10.252.2.9 remote-as 65533
    neighbor 10.252.2.18 remote-as 65533
    address-family ipv4 unicast
        neighbor 10.252.0.3 activate
        neighbor 10.252.2.8 activate
        neighbor 10.252.2.8 route-map ncn-w001 in
        neighbor 10.252.2.9 activate
        neighbor 10.252.2.9 route-map ncn-w002 in
        neighbor 10.252.2.18 activate
        neighbor 10.252.2.18 route-map ncn-w003 in
    exit-address-family
```
Mellanox delete commands.
```
sw-spine01 [standalone: master] # 
sw-spine01 [standalone: master] # conf t
sw-spine01 [standalone: master] (config) # no router bgp 65533
sw-spine01 [standalone: master] (config) # no route-map ncn-w001
sw-spine01 [standalone: master] (config) # no route-map ncn-w002
sw-spine01 [standalone: master] (config) # no route-map ncn-w003
```
Mellanox configuration example.
```
## Route-maps configuration
##
   route-map rm-ncn-w001 permit 10 match ip address pl-nmn
   route-map rm-ncn-w001 permit 10 set ip next-hop 10.252.0.7
   route-map rm-ncn-w001 permit 20 match ip address pl-hmn
   route-map rm-ncn-w001 permit 20 set ip next-hop 10.254.0.7
   route-map rm-ncn-w001 permit 30 match ip address pl-can
   route-map rm-ncn-w001 permit 30 set ip next-hop 10.103.8.7
   route-map rm-ncn-w002 permit 10 match ip address pl-nmn
   route-map rm-ncn-w002 permit 10 set ip next-hop 10.252.0.8
   route-map rm-ncn-w002 permit 20 match ip address pl-hmn
   route-map rm-ncn-w002 permit 20 set ip next-hop 10.254.0.8
   route-map rm-ncn-w002 permit 30 match ip address pl-can
   route-map rm-ncn-w002 permit 30 set ip next-hop 10.103.8.8
   route-map rm-ncn-w003 permit 10 match ip address pl-nmn
   route-map rm-ncn-w003 permit 10 set ip next-hop 10.252.0.9
   route-map rm-ncn-w003 permit 20 match ip address pl-hmn
   route-map rm-ncn-w003 permit 20 set ip next-hop 10.254.0.9
   route-map rm-ncn-w003 permit 30 match ip address pl-can
   route-map rm-ncn-w003 permit 30 set ip next-hop 10.103.8.9
   
##
## BGP configuration
##
   protocol bgp
   router bgp 65533 vrf default
   router bgp 65533 vrf default router-id 10.252.0.1 force
   router bgp 65533 vrf default maximum-paths ibgp 32
   router bgp 65533 vrf default neighbor 10.252.0.7 remote-as 65533
   router bgp 65533 vrf default neighbor 10.252.0.7 route-map ncn-w001
   router bgp 65533 vrf default neighbor 10.252.0.8 remote-as 65533
   router bgp 65533 vrf default neighbor 10.252.0.8 route-map ncn-w002
   router bgp 65533 vrf default neighbor 10.252.0.9 remote-as 65533
   router bgp 65533 vrf default neighbor 10.252.0.9 route-map ncn-w003
   router bgp 65533 vrf default neighbor 10.252.0.10 remote-as 65533
```

- Once the IPs are updated for the route-maps and BGP neighbors you may need to restart the BGP process on the switches, you do this by running `clear ip bgp all` on the mellanox and `clear bgp *` on the Arubas. (This may need to be done multiple times for all the peers to come up)
- When workers are reinstalled the BGP process will need to be restarted. 
- If the BGP peers are still not coming up you should check the Metallb.yaml config file for errors.  The Metallb config file should point to the NMN IPs of the switches configured.

Metallb.yaml configuration example.
- The peer-address should be the IP of the switch that you are doing BGP peering with.  
```
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  namespace: metallb-system
  name: config
data:
  config: |
    peers:
    - peer-address: 10.252.0.2
      peer-asn: 65533
      my-asn: 65533
    - peer-address: 10.252.0.3
      peer-asn: 65533
      my-asn: 65533
    address-pools:
    - name: customer-access
      protocol: bgp
      addresses:
      - 10.102.9.112/28
    - name: customer-access-dynamic
      protocol: bgp
      addresses:
      - 10.102.9.128/25
    - name: hardware-management
      protocol: bgp
      addresses:
      - 10.94.100.0/24
    - name: node-management
      protocol: bgp
      addresses:
      - 10.92.100.0/24
```
