405-MGMT-NET-PORT-CONFIG.md, before:

# Management Network Access Port configurations.

# Requirements
- Access to switches
- SHCD

# Configuration

- This configuration describes the edge port configuration, you'll find these in the NMN/HMN/Mountain-TDS Management Tab of the SHCD.
- Typically these are ports that are connected to iLOs (BMCs), gateway nodes, or compute nodes/CMM switches.

```
sw-smn01(config)#  interface 1/1/28
sw-smn01(config)# no shutdown 
sw-smn01(config)# mtu 9198
sw-smn01(config)# description HMN
sw-smn01(config)# no routing
sw-smn01(config)# vlan access 4
```

- This configuration describes the ports that go to the Node Management Network (NMN/VLAN2).
- You can Identify these ports by referencing the NMN tab on the SHCD.

```
sw-smn01(config)# interface 1/1/6
sw-smn01(config)# no shutdown 
sw-smn01(config)# mtu 9198
sw-smn01(config)# description NMN
sw-smn01(config)# no routing
sw-smn01(config)# vlan access 2
```

- This configuration describes the ports that go to the Mountain CMMs/Computes.
- The CDU switches have two cables connecting to each CMM, we will setup MC-LAG with the CDU switch pairs.
- The second CDU switch in the pair will have it's port to the CMM shutdown, Redundancy is not yet available for the CMM.

First CDU configuration.
```
sw-cdu01(config)# int lag 2 multi-chassis
sw-cdu01(config-lag-if)# vsx-sync vlans
sw-cdu01(config-lag-if)# no shutdown
sw-cdu01(config-lag-if)# description CMM_CAB_1000
sw-cdu01(config-lag-if)# no routing
sw-cdu01(config-lag-if)# vlan trunk native 2000
sw-cdu01(config-lag-if)# vlan trunk allowed 2000,3000,4091
sw-cdu01(config-lag-if)# lacp mode active
sw-cdu01(config-lag-if)# lacp fallback
sw-cdu01(config-lag-if)# exit

sw-cdu01(config)# int 1/1/2
sw-cdu01(config-if)# no shutdown
sw-cdu01(config-if)# lag 2
sw-cdu01(config-if)# exit
```

Second CDU configuration
```
sw-cdu02(config)# int lag 2 multi-chassis
sw-cdu02(config-lag-if)# vsx-sync vlans
sw-cdu02(config-lag-if)# shutdown
sw-cdu02(config-lag-if)# description CMM_CAB_1000
sw-cdu02(config-lag-if)# no routing
sw-cdu02(config-lag-if)# vlan trunk native 2000
sw-cdu02(config-lag-if)# vlan trunk allowed 2000,3000,4091
sw-cdu02(config-lag-if)# lacp mode active
sw-cdu02(config-lag-if)# lacp fallback
sw-cdu02(config-lag-if)# exit

sw-cdu02(config)# int 1/1/2
sw-cdu02(config-if)# no shutdown
sw-cdu02(config-if)# lag 2
sw-cdu02(config-if)# exit
```

Commit message:

Squashed 'vendor/stash.us.cray.com/scm/mtl/docs-csm-install/' changes from d56637e..0534f43
0534f43 Merge remote-tracking branch 'origin/main' into release/shasta-1.4
504f2c1 Merge pull request #187 in MTL/docs-csm-install from bugfix/CASMINST-1173 to main
748b25d Merge pull request #184 in MTL/docs-csm-install from feature/CASMNET-415-switch-configuration-for-uan-nodes to main
6e7632d CASMINST-1173: Remove references to the Login subrole, as it is invalid.
9547ed9 updated UAN port config

git-subtree-dir: vendor/stash.us.cray.com/scm/mtl/docs-csm-install
git-subtree-split: 0534f43875c46450f41d73482e9272ea2b9c4812

405-MGMT-NET-PORT-CONFIG.md, after:

# Management Network Access Port configurations.

# Requirements
- Access to switches
- SHCD

# Configuration

- This configuration describes the edge port configuration, you'll find these in the NMN/HMN/Mountain-TDS Management Tab of the SHCD.
- Typically these are ports that are connected to iLOs (BMCs), gateway nodes, or compute nodes/CMM switches.

```
sw-smn01(config)#  interface 1/1/28
sw-smn01(config)# no shutdown 
sw-smn01(config)# mtu 9198
sw-smn01(config)# description HMN
sw-smn01(config)# no routing
sw-smn01(config)# vlan access 4
```

- This configuration describes the ports that go to the Node Management Network (NMN/VLAN2).
- You can Identify these ports by referencing the NMN tab on the SHCD.

```
sw-smn01(config)# interface 1/1/6
sw-smn01(config)# no shutdown 
sw-smn01(config)# mtu 9198
sw-smn01(config)# description NMN
sw-smn01(config)# no routing
sw-smn01(config)# vlan access 2
```

- UAN port configuration
- For 1.4 UANs are going to be only using a single port.
- UANs connected to Mellanox switches went over a bonded switch configuration in 1.3, we did not see any issues with this so we are keeping that configuraiton for 1.4.

Aruba Configuration
```
interface 1/1/16
    no shutdown
    mtu 9198
    no routing
    vlan trunk native 2
    vlan trunk allowed 2,7
    exit
```

- This configuration describes the ports that go to the Mountain CMMs/Computes.
- The CDU switches have two cables connecting to each CMM, we will setup MC-LAG with the CDU switch pairs.
- The second CDU switch in the pair will have it's port to the CMM shutdown, Redundancy is not yet available for the CMM.

First CDU configuration.
```
sw-cdu01(config)# int lag 2 multi-chassis
sw-cdu01(config-lag-if)# vsx-sync vlans
sw-cdu01(config-lag-if)# no shutdown
sw-cdu01(config-lag-if)# description CMM_CAB_1000
sw-cdu01(config-lag-if)# no routing
sw-cdu01(config-lag-if)# vlan trunk native 2000
sw-cdu01(config-lag-if)# vlan trunk allowed 2000,3000,4091
sw-cdu01(config-lag-if)# lacp mode active
sw-cdu01(config-lag-if)# lacp fallback
sw-cdu01(config-lag-if)# exit

sw-cdu01(config)# int 1/1/2
sw-cdu01(config-if)# no shutdown
sw-cdu01(config-if)# lag 2
sw-cdu01(config-if)# exit
```

Second CDU configuration
```
sw-cdu02(config)# int lag 2 multi-chassis
sw-cdu02(config-lag-if)# vsx-sync vlans
sw-cdu02(config-lag-if)# shutdown
sw-cdu02(config-lag-if)# description CMM_CAB_1000
sw-cdu02(config-lag-if)# no routing
sw-cdu02(config-lag-if)# vlan trunk native 2000
sw-cdu02(config-lag-if)# vlan trunk allowed 2000,3000,4091
sw-cdu02(config-lag-if)# lacp mode active
sw-cdu02(config-lag-if)# lacp fallback
sw-cdu02(config-lag-if)# exit

sw-cdu02(config)# int 1/1/2
sw-cdu02(config-if)# no shutdown
sw-cdu02(config-if)# lag 2
sw-cdu02(config-if)# exit
```
