411-MGMT-NET-LAYER3-CONFIG.md, before:

# Management Network Layer3 Configuration

This page describes how to configure the layer 3 routing between the CDU switches and the Spine/Leaf switches. 

# Requirements

- Access to all of the switches
- SHCD available

# Aruba Configuration

At this point you should be able to ping the CDU switches on their VLAN 2 and VLAN 4 interfaces.
We will need to setup routing so the compute nodes can communicate with k8s.

Spine/leaf switch configuration
- First step is to start the OSPF process, give the switch a router-id. This is typically the NMN IP.
- We will need to redistribute BGP into OSPF, this will allow devices to communicate with K8s
```
router ospf 1
    router-id 10.252.0.3
    redistribute bgp
    area 0.0.0.2
    area 0.0.0.4
```
The OSPF peering will happen over VLAN 2 and VLAN 4.
```
interface vlan 2
    ip ospf 1 area 0.0.0.2
interface vlan 4
    ip ospf 1 area 0.0.0.4
```

The BGP config will need to be changed on these switches to avoid routing loops.
```
router bgp 65533
    distance bgp 85 70
```

CDU switch Layer3 configuration
```
router ospf 1
    router-id 10.252.0.6
    area 0.0.0.2
    area 0.0.0.4
interface vlan 2
    ip ospf 1 area 0.0.0.2
interface vlan 4
    ip ospf 1 area 0.0.0.4
interface vlan 2000
    ip ospf 1 area 0.0.0.2
    ip ospf passive
interface vlan 3000
    ip ospf 1 area 0.0.0.4
    ip ospf passive
```

Once this is complete you should be able to see OSPF neighbors on the CDU switches.

```
sw-cdu-002# show ip ospf neighbors 
OSPF Process ID 1 VRF default
==============================

Total Number of Neighbors: 6

Neighbor ID      Priority  State             Nbr Address       Interface
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
10.252.0.2       1         FULL/DROther      10.252.0.2         vlan2          

10.252.0.3       1         FULL/DROther      10.252.0.3         vlan2          

10.252.0.5       1         FULL/BDR          10.252.0.5         vlan2          

10.252.0.2       1         FULL/DROther      10.254.0.2         vlan4          

10.252.0.3       1         FULL/DROther      10.254.0.3         vlan4          

10.252.0.5       1         FULL/BDR          10.254.0.5         vlan4 
```

# Aruba Static route
This route is needed for consistent PXE booting on Aruba switches.
The second IP ```10.252.1.10``` will be a worker node.  Here we are using worker 1. 
```
ip route 10.92.100.60/32 10.252.1.10
ip route 10.94.100.60/32 10.252.1.10
```

Commit message:

Squashed 'vendor/stash.us.cray.com/scm/mtl/docs-csm-install/' changes from a1f10cd..537cf30
537cf30 CASMINST-1670 Add procedure for adjusting boot order
f0e9163 Linked ssh key rotation note to WAR script path.
4a8b16c CASMINST-1653 Add NCN BIOS Settings
304912b CASMINST-1667: add note regarding ssh key rotation
3399e08 CASMINST-1684: Re-added missing commands to re-run cloud init.
0cac436 tweak
05699c0 CASMINST-1672: Doc edits based on surtur 0.8.20 install
9063705 Wrong active FSLabel
f451283 Merge
fd1b197 make more copy-pastable
a6431e8 CASMINST-1668 tweak to select the right disks
ccead22 CASMINST-1605 procedure to fix faulty ncn_metadata.csv file
e3af0a0 spaces
6814cb2 updated L3 docs to include leaf/hill config
8aff77b CASMINST-1664: Remove use of PDSH
03ff598 CASMINST-1664: Add validation procedures for spire-agent and vault
72b42b3 Fix typo.
32e1f42 Update internal use instructions for HMS tests.
4de4a90 Added more information about REDS, MEDS, and RTS creds secrets.
a7bb0d7 Various fixes and edits based on surtur 0.8.19 install and proofreading
aadea3b CASMINST-1668 Wipe before rebooting LiveCD
794239b CASMCMS-6792 - add steps to check console connections.
15107f3 toc for cleanslate

git-subtree-dir: vendor/stash.us.cray.com/scm/mtl/docs-csm-install
git-subtree-split: 537cf303908df44b321e4ed2561e903e1e949bf7

411-MGMT-NET-LAYER3-CONFIG.md, after:

# Management Network Layer3 Configuration

This page describes how to configure layer 3 routing for Hill and MTN cabinets.

MTN cabinets have their own "CDU" Switches.

Hill cabinets are connected the leaf switches.

# Requirements

- Access to all of the switches
- SHCD available

# Aruba Configuration

At this point you should be able to ping the CDU switches on their VLAN 2 and VLAN 4 interfaces.
We will need to setup routing so the compute nodes can communicate with k8s.

Spine/Agg switch configuration
- First step is to start the OSPF process, give the switch a router-id. This is typically the NMN IP.
- We will need to redistribute BGP into OSPF, this will allow devices to communicate with K8s
```
router ospf 1
    router-id 10.252.0.3
    redistribute bgp
    area 0.0.0.2
    area 0.0.0.4
```
The OSPF peering will happen over VLAN 2 and VLAN 4.
```
interface vlan 2
    ip ospf 1 area 0.0.0.2
interface vlan 4
    ip ospf 1 area 0.0.0.4
```

The BGP config will need to be changed on these switches to avoid routing loops.
```
router bgp 65533
    distance bgp 85 70
```

CDU/Leaf switch Layer3 configuration
```
router ospf 1
    router-id 10.252.0.6
    area 0.0.0.2
    area 0.0.0.4
interface vlan 2
    ip ospf 1 area 0.0.0.2
interface vlan 4
    ip ospf 1 area 0.0.0.4
interface vlan 2000
    ip ospf 1 area 0.0.0.2
    ip ospf passive
interface vlan 3000
    ip ospf 1 area 0.0.0.4
    ip ospf passive
```

Once this is complete you should be able to see OSPF neighbors on the CDU/Leaf switches.

```
sw-cdu-002# show ip ospf neighbors 
OSPF Process ID 1 VRF default
==============================

Total Number of Neighbors: 6

Neighbor ID      Priority  State             Nbr Address       Interface
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
10.252.0.2       1         FULL/DROther      10.252.0.2         vlan2          

10.252.0.3       1         FULL/DROther      10.252.0.3         vlan2          

10.252.0.5       1         FULL/BDR          10.252.0.5         vlan2          

10.252.0.2       1         FULL/DROther      10.254.0.2         vlan4          

10.252.0.3       1         FULL/DROther      10.254.0.3         vlan4          

10.252.0.5       1         FULL/BDR          10.254.0.5         vlan4 
```

# Aruba Static route
This route is needed for consistent PXE booting on Aruba switches.
The second IP ```10.252.1.10``` will be a worker node.  Here we are using worker 1. 
```
ip route 10.92.100.60/32 10.252.1.10
ip route 10.94.100.60/32 10.252.1.10
```
