421-MGMT-NET-CABLING-CHECKLIST.md, before:

# 1.4 Management network cabling checklist

This page is designed to be a guide on how all servers in a Shasta system are wired to the management network.

- Prerequisites
 - System SHCD
 - PoR Cabling Docs [MGMT-NET-CABLING](416-MGMT-NET-CABLING.md)

## Steps

- Open the SHCD
- Go to the ```Device Diagrams``` Tab.
    - There you will see what type of hardware is on the system.
    - Take note of the hardware.
- go to the ```25G_10G``` or ```40G_10G``` tab, this will depend on the SHCD.
    - we'll be looking at this part of the page.
![SHCD](img/network/SHCD-40G_10G.png)
    - Based on the vendor of the server and the name in the first colum we can determine how it's supposed to be cabled. 
    - We can use ```mn01``` as an example, this is a gigabyte master node, we noted the vendor in the ```device diagrams``` tab.
    - Once you have those two pieces of information you can open the [MGMT-NET-CABLING](416-MGMT-NET-CABLING.md) page.
    - Locate ```NCN Gigabyte Master``` and make sure that it's cabled correctly.
    
- Complete the previous steps for all nodes listed on the SHCD.
    - UANs
    - NCNs Workers
    - NCNs Masters
    - NCNs Storage
    - Application nodes
    
## Checklist

| Hardware Type | Step      | Complete?     |
| ----------- | ----------- | ------------- |
| UAN/Application Node         |             |               |
|             | Open the SHCD from the system |             |
|             | Go to the ```Device Diagrams``` tab, take note of the type of hardware on the system        |          |
|             | Depending on the hardware, open either the **25G_10G** tab or the **40G_10G** tab. |        |
|             | Locate the servers named ```mn``` |        |
|             | Based on the vendor of the server and the name in the first colum we can determine how it's supposed to be cabled.  |         |
|             | Check cabling against the [MGMT-NET-CABLING](416-MGMT-NET-CABLING.md) page.            |               |
|             | If it's cabled correctly you are done.            |               |
|             | If it's cabled incorrectly, contact the team in charge of cabling and request a change.             |               |
| NCN-Master         |             |               |
|             | Open the SHCD from the system |             |
|             | Go to the ```Device Diagrams``` tab, take note of the type of hardware on the system        |          |
|             | Depending on the hardware, open either the **25G_10G** tab or the **40G_10G** tab. |        |
|             | Locate the servers named ```mn0x``` |        |
|             | Based on the vendor of the server and the name in the first colum we can determine how it's supposed to be cabled.  |         |
|             | Check cabling against the [MGMT-NET-CABLING](416-MGMT-NET-CABLING.md) page.            |               |
|             | If it's cabled correctly you are done.            |               |
|             | If it's cabled incorrectly, contact the team in charge of cabling and request a change.             |               |
| NCN-Worker         |             |               |
|             | Open the SHCD from the system |             |
|             | Go to the ```Device Diagrams``` tab, take note of the type of hardware on the system        |          |
|             | Depending on the hardware, open either the **25G_10G** tab or the **40G_10G** tab. |        |
|             | Locate the servers named ```wn0x``` |        |
|             | Based on the vendor of the server and the name in the first colum we can determine how it's supposed to be cabled.  |         |
|             | Check cabling against the [MGMT-NET-CABLING](416-MGMT-NET-CABLING.md) page.            |               |
|             | If it's cabled correctly you are done.            |               |
|             | If it's cabled incorrectly, contact the team in charge of cabling and request a change.             |               |
| NCN-Storage         |             |               |
|             | Open the SHCD from the system |             |
|             | Go to the ```Device Diagrams``` tab, take note of the type of hardware on the system        |          |
|             | Depending on the hardware, open either the **25G_10G** tab or the **40G_10G** tab. |        |
|             | Locate the servers named ```sn0x``` |        |
|             | Based on the vendor of the server and the name in the first colum we can determine how it's supposed to be cabled.  |         |
|             | Check cabling against the [MGMT-NET-CABLING](416-MGMT-NET-CABLING.md) page.            |               |
|             | If it's cabled correctly you are done.            |               |
|             | If it's cabled incorrectly, contact the team in charge of cabling and request a change.             |               |

Commit message:

Squashed 'vendor/stash.us.cray.com/scm/mtl/docs-csm-install/' changes from 5d310d7..a1f10cd
a1f10cd CASMINST-1652 Changing wording to make optional a use case
4b36b7b Clarify that one of the checks has to happen on s001
cb56b0b CASMTRIAGE-836: More precise about kubectl get nodes time
d9542bc CASMINST-1519: Reference appendix for proc to review prior secrets for meds/reds/..
9cfa13e CASMINST-1596:  Create a careful loop for wiping the NCN disks
29f7af4 CASMINST-1645 add in admin guide reference for Utility Storage
a3c79db CASMINST-1648: Call out deploydecryptionkey.sh error as benign
bbd47f8 tweak sentence
b5e08b0 updated SHASTA-CFG site-init prep line
353bd6c CASMINST-1640 - Correcting Mellanox firmware versions that were incorrect, according to James Swaro.
b02a166 Add note about admin guide when rebuild an ncn after handoff
f9ea77e Fix typo
16fd6dc Fix WAR directory in the m001 reboot procedure
87553a2 CASMINST-1615: Add process to access serial bios menu of the HPE ncns
fbca237 Add statement to restart install.sh when the SLS loader fails to run
a8df1c0 CASMINST-1635: Add injection points for the after-ncn-boot WARs.
f859e17 Updates to HPE iLO and BIOS firmware version numbers
a8dda18 CASMINST-1625: Minor updates and corrections to install validation procedures
ce8d922 fix spacing
918d68b Fix numbering and remove giant subscripts
ba4a2f4 retry removing
eb52ce5 spacing
6fe8bf3 CASMINST-1611: Changes from the 0.8.16 install of Loki
2727a1c fixed stp uan config
604c54f added guidance for port configuration
928e37d Add procedure to install Git
21b86a1 Add TOC to 067-SHASTA-CFG.md and move site-init secret to 006-CSM-PLATFORM-INSTALL.md
0346d58 Fix toc
c12339e CASMINST-1555 Describe the interlocking configuration dance for managmenet NCN deployment

git-subtree-dir: vendor/stash.us.cray.com/scm/mtl/docs-csm-install
git-subtree-split: a1f10cd9856b06bf3e849b4517eff62d302d52c4

421-MGMT-NET-CABLING-CHECKLIST.md, after:

# 1.4 Management network cabling checklist

This page is designed to be a guide on how all nodes in a Shasta system are wired to the management network.

- Prerequisites
 - System SHCD
 - PoR Cabling Docs [MGMT-NET-CABLING](416-MGMT-NET-CABLING.md)

## Steps

- Open the SHCD
- Go to the ```Device Diagrams``` Tab.
    - There you will see what type of hardware is on the system.
    - Take note of the hardware.
- go to the ```25G_10G``` or ```40G_10G``` tab, this will depend on the SHCD.
    - we'll be looking at this part of the page.
![SHCD](img/network/SHCD-40G_10G.png)
    - Based on the vendor of the nodes and the name in the first colum we can determine how it's supposed to be cabled. 
    - We can use ```mn01``` as an example, this is a gigabyte master node, we noted the vendor in the ```device diagrams``` tab.
    - Once you have those two pieces of information you can open the [MGMT-NET-CABLING](416-MGMT-NET-CABLING.md) page.
    - Locate ```NCN Gigabyte Master``` and make sure that it's cabled correctly.
    
- Complete the previous steps for all nodes listed on the SHCD.
    - UANs
    - NCNs Workers
    - NCNs Masters
    - NCNs Storage
    - Application nodes
    
## Checklist

| Hardware Type | Step      | Complete?     |
| ----------- | ----------- | ------------- |
| UAN/Application Node         |             |               |
|             | Open the SHCD from the system |             |
|             | Go to the ```Device Diagrams``` tab, take note of the type of hardware on the system        |          |
|             | Depending on the hardware, open either the **25G_10G** tab or the **40G_10G** tab. |        |
|             | Locate the nodes named ```mn``` |        |
|             | Based on the vendor of the node and the name in the first colum we can determine how it's supposed to be cabled.  |         |
|             | Check cabling against the [MGMT-NET-CABLING](416-MGMT-NET-CABLING.md) page.            |               |
|             | If it's cabled correctly you are done.            |               |
|             | If it's cabled incorrectly, contact the team in charge of cabling and request a change.             |               |
| NCN-Master         |             |               |
|             | Open the SHCD from the system |             |
|             | Go to the ```Device Diagrams``` tab, take note of the type of hardware on the system        |          |
|             | Depending on the hardware, open either the **25G_10G** tab or the **40G_10G** tab. |        |
|             | Locate the nodes named ```mn0x``` |        |
|             | Based on the vendor of the node and the name in the first colum we can determine how it's supposed to be cabled.  |         |
|             | Check cabling against the [MGMT-NET-CABLING](416-MGMT-NET-CABLING.md) page.            |               |
|             | If it's cabled correctly you are done.            |               |
|             | If it's cabled incorrectly, contact the team in charge of cabling and request a change.             |               |
| NCN-Worker         |             |               |
|             | Open the SHCD from the system |             |
|             | Go to the ```Device Diagrams``` tab, take note of the type of hardware on the system        |          |
|             | Depending on the hardware, open either the **25G_10G** tab or the **40G_10G** tab. |        |
|             | Locate the nodes named ```wn0x``` |        |
|             | Based on the vendor of the node and the name in the first colum we can determine how it's supposed to be cabled.  |         |
|             | Check cabling against the [MGMT-NET-CABLING](416-MGMT-NET-CABLING.md) page.            |               |
|             | If it's cabled correctly you are done.            |               |
|             | If it's cabled incorrectly, contact the team in charge of cabling and request a change.             |               |
| NCN-Storage         |             |               |
|             | Open the SHCD from the system |             |
|             | Go to the ```Device Diagrams``` tab, take note of the type of hardware on the system        |          |
|             | Depending on the hardware, open either the **25G_10G** tab or the **40G_10G** tab. |        |
|             | Locate the nodes named ```sn0x``` |        |
|             | Based on the vendor of the node and the name in the first colum we can determine how it's supposed to be cabled.  |         |
|             | Check cabling against the [MGMT-NET-CABLING](416-MGMT-NET-CABLING.md) page.            |               |
|             | If it's cabled correctly you are done.            |               |
|             | If it's cabled incorrectly, contact the team in charge of cabling and request a change.             |               |
