fix/livecd-pre-reboot/CASMINST-1297/README.md, before:

# CASMINST-1297 Workaround

Before the PIT is rebooted to become m001 up to two steps need to be taken.

1. **Before** running `csi handoff bss-metadata` as instructed in 007-CSM-INSTALL-REBOOT:
    * Take a copy of `data.json`:
        ```bash
        pit# cp /var/www/ephemeral/configs/data.json ./data-bss.json 
        ```
   * Edit that file and make 2 changes:
        1. Find the entry corresponding to ncn-m001 (you can search for `hostname`). Remove this line from the `runcmd` array:
                ```text
                "/srv/cray/scripts/metal/set-dhcp-to-static.sh",
                ```
        2. In the "Global" section update:
                ```text
                "dns-server": "10.252.1.12",
                ```
           To (the IP of Unbound)::
                ```text
                "dns-server": "10.92.100.225",
                ```
   * Ensure when you do the handoff step you give the path to this patched file and not the one in the configs directory.
2. This step is always safe to execute however if m001 is to be rebooted more than 2 hours after the first master was 
   initialized the join command must be refreshed with a new certificate key (**note** this need to be run on m002):
    ```bash
    ncn-m002# kubeadm init phase upload-certs --upload-certs --config /etc/cray/kubernetes/kubeadm.yaml 2>/dev/null | tail -n 1 \
      > /etc/cray/kubernetes/certificate-key
    ncn-m002# kubeadm token create --print-join-command > /etc/cray/kubernetes/join-command 2>/dev/null
    ncn-m002# echo "$(cat /etc/cray/kubernetes/join-command) --control-plane --certificate-key $(cat /etc/cray/kubernetes/certificate-key)" \
      > /etc/cray/kubernetes/join-command-control-plane
    ```

Commit message:

CASMINST-1315: Add step the re-start the KEA pod before rebooting m001

fix/livecd-pre-reboot/CASMINST-1297/README.md, after:

# CASMINST-1297 Workaround

Before the PIT is rebooted to become m001 up to three steps need to be taken.

1. **Before** running `csi handoff bss-metadata` as instructed in 007-CSM-INSTALL-REBOOT:
    * Take a copy of `data.json`:
        ```bash
        pit# cp /var/www/ephemeral/configs/data.json ./data-bss.json 
        ```
   * Edit that file and make 2 changes:
        1. Find the entry corresponding to ncn-m001 (you can search for `hostname`). Remove this line from the `runcmd` array:
                ```text
                "/srv/cray/scripts/metal/set-dhcp-to-static.sh",
                ```
        2. In the "Global" section update:
                ```text
                "dns-server": "10.252.1.12",
                ```
           To (the IP of Unbound)::
                ```text
                "dns-server": "10.92.100.225",
                ```
   * Ensure when you do the handoff step you give the path to this patched file and not the one in the configs directory.
2. This step is always safe to execute however if m001 is to be rebooted more than 2 hours after the first master was 
   initialized the join command must be refreshed with a new certificate key (**note** this need to be run on m002):
    ```bash
    ncn-m002# kubeadm init phase upload-certs --upload-certs --config /etc/cray/kubernetes/kubeadm.yaml 2>/dev/null | tail -n 1 \
      > /etc/cray/kubernetes/certificate-key
    ncn-m002# kubeadm token create --print-join-command > /etc/cray/kubernetes/join-command 2>/dev/null
    ncn-m002# echo "$(cat /etc/cray/kubernetes/join-command) --control-plane --certificate-key $(cat /etc/cray/kubernetes/certificate-key)" \
      > /etc/cray/kubernetes/join-command-control-plane
    ```
3. Before the PIT is rebooted into m001, the KEA pod in the services namespace needs restarted (**note** these commands be ran on the PIT or m002):
  > This is to help prevent issues with m001 PXE booting

  Determine the KEA pod name:
  ```
  ncn-w001:~ # kubectl -n services get pods | grep kea
  cray-dhcp-kea-6fc795c9f9-pdrq8                                 3/3     Running     0          15h
  ```

  Delete the currently running pod:
  ```
  ncn-w001:~ # kubectl -n services delete pod cray-dhcp-kea-6fc795c9f9-pdrq8
  pod "cray-dhcp-kea-6fc795c9f9-pdrq8" deleted
  ```

  Before rebooting wait for the KEA pod to become healthy:
  ```
  ncn-m001:~ # kubectl -n services get pods | grep kea
  cray-dhcp-kea-6fc795c9f9-6pd86                                 3/3     Running       0          78s
  ```
